Dear AbbVie Shareholder,
Our sixth year as AbbVie was filled with many successes and launched the next phase of our company’s evolution.
Since our outset in 2013, AbbVie has been dedicated to driving a remarkable impact on patients and society by
addressing some of the world’s most complex medical challenges. We have made substantial progress on this vision
while simultaneously delivering consistent top-tier performance, and, in 2018, posted our fourth consecutive year of
double-digit growth.
Performance in 2018 was our strongest to-date across several metrics. Operational revenue grew 15 percent to
$32.7 billion with nearly one quarter of our global sales generated from products launched since our inception in
2013. Together with Humira, these new products continue to advance the standard of care for patients and drove
sustained long-term growth.
On the strength of our business performance and amid continued healthy investment for the future, we raised
our earnings forecast more than 20 percent over the course of 2018. We delivered adjusted earnings per share growth
of 41 percent to $7.91, the highest level of growth in our peer group and the best performance in AbbVie’s history.
We have demonstrated our strong commitment to our shareholders with quarterly dividend growth of 50 percent in
2018 and total growth of 168 percent since inception. We remain committed to investing in our business to sustain
long-term growth and rewarding our shareholders with a strong return on capital.
We continue to invest in our key therapeutic areas of Immunology, Oncology and Neuroscience as we strive to
bring innovative new treatments to patients. Since our inception, we have launched more than 15 new therapies or
indications across our key therapeutic areas. Over the coming months, we will see continued advancement of our midand late-stage pipeline as additional data from our clinical programs becomes available. As is true in our industry,
bringing innovative new medicines that solve some of the most critical health conditions is a challenging and risky
goal. However, when we are successful, we achieve our mission of changing people’s lives. Unfortunately, in 2018 we
also received disappointing results from the clinical program for Rova-T in small cell lung cancer, one of the
hardest-to-treat forms of cancer. Our research continues to focus on the most serious conditions with significant unmet
medical need and although not all research endeavors will ultimately be successful, we remain relentless in our pursuit
of leading-edge science to provide new hope to patients around the world.
As expected, in 2018, the launch of biosimilar competition for Humira began in many areas around the world. We
remain confident in our robust product portfolio and promising late-stage pipeline to continue to deliver growth. For
example, in 2018, we launched Orilissa, the first new treatment for women suffering from endometriosis in more than
a decade. In 2019, we expect to receive regulatory approval for two new Immunology therapies, risankizumab and
upadacitinib, that have demonstrated superior efficacy in clinical studies and have the potential for market leadership.
We remain focused on augmenting our pipeline through internal and external innovation to generate a steady cadence
of new product launches well into the next decade.
At AbbVie, we live a culture of giving back. That’s why, in 2018, we pledged an additional $350 million to support
U.S. nonprofits creating long-term impact in communities in need, from North Chicago to Puerto Rico and other cities
across America. We focused our contributions in three areas that align with our philanthropic priorities—helping
families thrive, disaster relief and strengthening K-12 education—demonstrating the very best of AbbVie and our
culture.
AbbVie employees around the world are passionate and dedicated to driving a remarkable impact for patients
through life-changing therapies. We are entering an exciting phase of AbbVie’s journey, one that will set the foundation
for sustainable success and we thank you for your continued support of our company.
Sincerely,
Richard A. Gonzalez
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer