Dear AIG Shareholder,
2018 marked Brian Duperreault’s first full year
as President and Chief Executive Officer of AIG.
During his tenure, Brian and his leadership team
have worked quickly to implement a strategy
that is repositioning AIG to be an industry leader
delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
To date, they have undertaken a number
of actions, including:
•Continuing to add world-class talent
across the organization
•Reducing risk and volatility in AIG’s portfolio
•Recommitting to underwriting excellence
•Leveraging the benefits of AIG’s diversified
global footprint
•Demonstrating a commitment to expense
discipline while prudently deploying capital
to invest in AIG’s businesses
We are also in the midst of a significant
refreshment of the Board of Directors,
adding substantial additional
insurance and investment expertise.
In January, we announced the election of
Thomas Motamed to the Board. Tom is an
insurance industry veteran who previously
served as Chairman and CEO of CNA
Financial Corporation and before that
spent 31 years with The Chubb Corporation.
We are pleased to introduce three new
director candidates for election at this year’s
annual meeting:
•Peter Porrino, formerly Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of XL Group Ltd;
•Amy Schioldager, formerly Senior Managing
Director and Global Head of Beta Strategies
at BlackRock, Inc.; and
•Therese Vaughan, former CEO of the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners and
the Robb B. Kelley Visiting Distinguished Professor
and Former Dean of the College of Business
and Public Administration at Drake University.
Theresa Stone will be retiring as a Director
at this year’s Annual Meeting, as she has
reached our general retirement age under
our corporate governance guidelines, and
Ronald Rittenmeyer has advised us that he will
not stand for election, given other professional
commitments. I want to thank them for their
service and many contributions.
The Board is also grateful for the continued
dedication of AIG’s employees around the
world who serve the needs of the company’s
clients, brokers and customers.
Thank you, our shareholders, for continuing
to entrust us with your capital. I want to assure
you that your Board is highly focused on
ensuring that AIG is best positioned to deliver
sustainable value for you over the long term.
Sincerely,
Douglas M. Steenland
Independent Chairman of the Board