The role of business is to create prosperity by serving customers,
making a profit, creating jobs and improving communities. This
Prosperity Report demonstrates how Allstate measures up to this
role. It begins with Our Shared Purpose, on the opposite page, which
articulates our strategic vision, values, principles and priorities.
Allstate’s business strategy is to increase market share in our traditional auto, home and life
insurance products and newer offerings such as electronic device and identity protection. Translating
this strategy into daily activity requires a system of “strategic middleware,” including customer value
propositions, competitively differentiated business models and annual operating priorities. We are
the only company to offer four distinct customer value propositions for property-liability insurance.
Acquiring SquareTrade and InfoArmor positions us in high growth protection categories with superior
business models. A longer-term aspiration to reduce personal transportation costs for consumers
includes working with ride sharing companies and creating new businesses.
In 2018, Allstate made excellent progress in executing this strategy while delivering on annual
operating priorities. Revenues reached almost $40 billion with premiums increasing 6.9% from the
prior year. Policies in force grew by 36% to over 113 million reflecting outstanding organic growth
from SquareTrade and a 2.9% increase in property-liability policies. Profitability was strong with
adjusted net income* of $2.85 billion and return on equity* of 14.8%.
Reinventing protection requires us to innovate, take risks and create change, not just react to trends.
Technology investments ensure customers get good value for their hard earned money. For example,
auto insurance claims are now settled in hours instead of days by using digital images which requires
fewer employees and lowers costs. At the same time new jobs were created by investing in telematics
for auto insurance and expanding product offerings and distribution. The Allstate family has grown to
88,000 members over the past five years, an increase of 14,400.
Allstate’s culture is based on integrity, inclusive diversity and empowering people. We were once again
named among the World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere. Employee engagement is high
because helping customers navigate unexpected and unwanted events is rewarding. In addition, over
32,000 Allstaters have clarified their personal purpose through Energy for Life which links their
objectives to Allstate’s.
Empowering others helps fulfill our responsibility to build stronger communities. Allstate’s philanthropy
has enabled over six million youth to volunteer in their communities and helped victims of domestic
violence free themselves from abuse.
All of us at Allstate are thankful for the opportunity to make a difference in society!
Tom Wilson, Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer