Dear Fellow Stockholders,
I’ve been on the Google, then Alphabet, Board for 15 years. I’ve had the privilege to work closely with Sergey, Larry, Sundar, and
an evolving and diverse group of directors. And last year I had the honor of becoming Alphabet’s Chairman.
The companies that comprise Alphabet continue to build technologies that improve the lives of people everywhere. Google now
has eight products serving over a billion people each, a reflection of the truly global adoption of its products and services, and
a tribute to a lot of hard work and commitment from our employees. It’s also partnering deeply to help enterprises transition to
cloud computing. Already on the road in Phoenix, Arizona, Waymo is working to ensure that people can safely hail rides from selfdriving cars. Wing has just received FAA approval to start delivering goods by drone. And we are making progress on a number
of other important areas from health to artiƒcial intelligence.
1f course, as the beneƒts of technology spread to many more people, we know that we have a deep and growing responsibility
to ensure that technology beneƒts society as a whole. We’re committed to supporting our users, employees, and shareholders,
by always acting responsibly, inclusively, and fairly.
Our Board takes seriously its leadership and oversight role in these areas. Recent years have seen broader discussions around
the role of companies in promoting diversity and sustainability. These are issues we are deeply committed to as a Board and as
a company.
Our Board receives frequent updates from management, monitors progress, scrutinizes the company’s policies, and carefully
considers these complex issues with the attention and focus that they warrant. In recent years, we’ve tackled these issues in
important and meaningful ways. Just a few examples:
y Employee Policies and Workplace Culture - In the last year, Google has made signiƒcant changes to its policies and practices,
including improved information on how it handles workplace conduct concerns; providing employees with more control over
their experiences through the reporting and investigations process; no longer requiring arbitration for employment disputes;
signiƒcant work to improve diversity, equity, and inclusion; and increasing transparency about its progress in achieving better
outcomes in representation, hiring, retention, and compensation.
y Sustainability - Our sustainability program focuses on developing services that improve the lives of as many people as possible
while operating in an environmentally sustainable way. Google is a world leader in renewable energy investment and use. In
addition, we publish an annual Responsible Supply Chain Report and Environmental Report that chart the signiƒcant progress
we have made in this area.
y Ongoing Monitoring of Societal Impact - In 2018, Google made substantial investments to improve and measure the quality
of content across its properties, to combat the threat of electoral interference and other bad actors, and to expand programs
such as Grow with Google— an initiative to help people develop the digital skills they need to get a job or grow their business.
Google is committed to a rigorous process of responsible decision-making and has developed AI Principles to guide its work
in emerging areas of technology.
These important topics will continue to evolve, and so will our approaches to them. I can promise that we will always move
forward with the focus and attention that these challenges demand.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, we look forward to working with you, and serving you, in the years to come. Thank you for
your support and feedback, and I look forward to seeing you at the Stockholders meeting on June 19th.
John L. Hennessy
Chairman of the Board of Directors