January 18, 2019
Dear Stockholder:
As your Lead Independent Director, I am pleased to invite you to attend our 2019 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders on Thursday, February 28, 2019 at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The meeting will be held at the Sofitel
Philadelphia, 120 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Notice of the 2019 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and the proxy statement describe the items of business for the meeting. Your vote is very
important. Whether or not you plan to attend the 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, we urge you to vote
and to submit your proxy over the Internet, by telephone or by mail.
The AmerisourceBergen Board of Directors believes that effective governance is critical to a successful
long-term strategy. We remain committed to a strong and independent Board. I take very seriously my
responsibility to ensure that our independent directors have oversight of key aspects of the Company. The
Board is informed about, and regularly discusses, AmerisourceBergen’s risk profile, and executes its oversight
responsibility directly and through its committees. All of our committees, other than the Finance Committee, are
comprised entirely of independent directors.
Our Board considers specific risk topics throughout the year, including risks associated with government
regulation as well as with the Company’s strategic objectives, business plan, operations, distribution of
controlled substances, information technology (including cybersecurity) and capital structure, among many
others. I am proud of the Board’s oversight of key challenges in fiscal 2018, including headwinds at certain of
our businesses and a rapidly changing healthcare landscape. On behalf of the entire Board, we encourage you
to read more about our robust governance structure, including in the ‘‘Proxy Statement Highlights’’ and
‘‘Highlights of Our Corporate Governance Practices and Policies’’ sections on the following pages, and in the
‘‘Corporate Governance’’ section beginning on page 23.
We are also committed to constructive stockholder engagement. Over the past year, AmerisourceBergen
expanded its stockholder outreach, as discussed in the ‘‘Stockholder Engagement’’ section beginning on
page 29. AmerisourceBergen’s engagement with stockholders this past year focused on, among other things,
corporate governance and the Board’s oversight and risk management role. Through meetings with some of our
largest institutional investors and others, we gained critical insight into the questions and concerns that
stockholders have about our governance practices.
For the remainder of fiscal 2019 and beyond, we will miss the valuable perspective and dedication of
Douglas R. Conant who, as previously announced, will not be standing for re-election to our Board of Directors
at the 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. On behalf of all my colleagues on the Board, I sincerely thank
Mr. Conant for the exceptional leadership and commitment that he has demonstrated during his tenure as a
director.
Your vote is very important to us. We strongly encourage you to read both our proxy statement and annual
report in their entirety, and ask that you vote with our recommendations.
Thank you for your continued investment in AmerisourceBergen.
Sincerely,
Jane E. Henney
Lead Independent Director