In 2018, our team celebrated five years since the
merger of American Airlines and US Airways.
With most of the integration work now behind
us and $25 billion invested in our team and
product, our efforts are poised to pay off. We
made great strides in delivering a world-class
customer experience, improving our revenue
performance and taking care of our team members.
At the same time, 2018 presented challenges to our business as we faced
rising fuel prices, difficult weather events, uncertain economic conditions
in some parts of the world and the early stages of a government
shutdown at the end of the year. We did not meet all our targets for
operational performance, which we know had an impact on customer
satisfaction.
But we are a team that collaborates, adapts and continues to move
forward. We identified challenges and implemented action plans to
adjust and correct. By the end of 2018, the hard work and dedication of
our team members helped produce pre-tax profit of $1.9 billion, or $2.8
billion excluding net special charges.1 Looking ahead, we will continue
to focus on our bedrock principle that when we take care of our team
members, they will take the best possible care of our customers, which, in
turn, takes care of our great company.
We are guided by our three long-term strategic objectives:
• Make Culture a Competitive Advantage: Our team members are
our most important asset. We’ve added more than 15,000 people
to our team since the merger, and we’re focused on supporting
their professional growth by building a culture of learning and
development. In 2018, we partnered with Harvard Business
School Publishing to launch Harvard ManageMentor, which
offers on-demand online courses with skill-building exercises and
business development guidance for more than 40 topics.
Our company’s focus on inclusion and diversity has never been
more deliberate. In 2018, we responded to feedback in this area
by engaging an industry expert to look more closely at inclusion
and diversity at American to highlight where we can better meet
the needs of our team members, customers and the communities
we serve. Some 75,000 team members completed computerbased implicit bias training in 2018, and all 130,000 will complete
the training in 2019. We will roll out in-person implicit bias
training for all team members beginning this year as well.
• Create a World-Class Customer Experience: Since the merger,
creating a consistent and exceptional experience for customers
across our network has been a top priority. We have invested
billions in new products and services and have more than
500 customer-facing projects underway, with most of them
taking place at our airports.
We’ve also added more than 200 new routes and 41 new stations
to our network over the past five years and combined more than
650 systems to help our team members serve customers better.
On board our aircraft, customers now enjoy greater connectivity
to high-speed Wi-Fi and enhanced entertainment, while visitors
to our lounges in many airports are enjoying recent upgrades. All
of this adds up to a more modern, comfortable and connected
experience for our customers.
• Build American Airlines to Thrive Forever: With the merger
of American and US Airways, we created the largest airline in
the world, and we’re committed to ensuring that our airline
will continue to thrive, now and into the future. Achieving our
financial objectives and investing heavily in airport infrastructure
— such as our $1.6 billion project at Los Angeles International
Airport (LAX) — will help us better serve our customers and team
members while positioning our company for success for many
more years to come.
Thriving in the future also means being mindful of our
environmental impacts as an airline and doing our part toward
responsible energy use and fuel conservation. Currently, 100
percent of electricity purchased at our Dallas-Fort Worth-area
facilities is from renewable sources. We’ve taken delivery of more
than 500 aircraft since the merger, giving American the youngest
fleet of any U.S. network carrier. And we continue to introduce
new, more fuel-efficient aircraft into our fleet while retiring the
same number of older planes.
Together, these three strategic objectives represent the important
responsibility we have to protect the pride each of us has in American
and to ensure that it lives on for those who will take care of this great
airline long after we are gone.
With that in mind, we have organized our 2018 Corporate Responsibility
Report around these themes to highlight our achievements and to
acknowledge the work that remains. We’ve made tremendous progress
to date, and we look forward to continuing the journey with you as we
reach many more exciting milestones in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
Doug Parker
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer