March 29, 2019
Dear Fellow Shareholders,
We look forward to welcoming you to our 2019 Annual Meeting, to be held at Anthem’s headquarters,
220 Virginia Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 on May 15, 2019 at 8 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time.
Our Annual Meeting is an opportunity to review our 2018 accomplishments, as well as our plans to build on the
positive momentum from the past year as we look ahead to 2019 and beyond.
In 2018, Anthem delivered strong performance with income before income tax expense increasing by almost
28% year-over-year to $5.1 billion, and operating gain growing by 30% year-over-year to $5.4 billion. We made
significant progress re-orienting Anthem for growth and improving the overall execution of the enterprise. We
understand that we play an important societal role. Our mission – improving lives and communities, simplifying
healthcare, and expecting more – drives our aspirations. Corporate responsibility is integral to our success as
a company, and as such, we were proud to be named to the 2018 Dow Jones Sustainability Index North
America for our work to empower communities, improve the sustainability of our business, operate with integrity
and advance an inclusive workplace.
Looking ahead, we intend to accelerate investment in strategically important capabilities – AI, digital, clinical
integration and provider collaboration – simplifying healthcare for those we serve and strengthening the impact
we have on the healthcare ecosystem. Our culture – with our mission, vision and values – provides the
foundation we need to deliver the next generation of growth and earnings.
Details for attending the Annual Meeting are included in this proxy statement. Please note that you must submit
your request to attend the Annual Meeting on or before May 6, 2019. Also enclosed are details for how and
when to vote. Your vote is very important to us so, if you are unable to attend the meeting, please vote in
advance of the Annual Meeting, either online, by mail or by telephone, to ensure your shares are represented
at the meeting.
Thank you for your continued investment in our Company. We appreciate your confidence in our leadership
and we hope to see you in Indianapolis.
Gail K. Boudreaux
President and Chief Executive Officer 

Dear Fellow Shareholders,
As your Board of Directors, we take our responsibilities very seriously and are committed to representing your
interests in the long-term. We believe our shareholders are best served when the Company achieves
sustainable results in a responsible manner. We are pleased with the Company’s performance and are happy
to share specific actions that the Board has taken in the past year.
Purpose & Culture. The Board worked collaboratively with Gail Boudreaux in 2018, her first full year as
President and CEO, to update the Company’s mission, vision and values. As part of our strategic oversight, we
ensure that the Company’s mission of improving lives and communities and simplifying healthcare is embedded
in the Company’s strategy and business plans. We have a special meeting each year dedicated to strategic
oversight, as well as regular strategy discussions throughout the year.
The Board considers itself the guardian of the Company’s culture, and recognizes the importance of culture in
achieving long-term success. We are proud that the Company was recognized in 2018 as one of the World’s
Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere.
Board Skills, Diversity & Refreshment. Board succession planning is also essential to the Company’s
success. As Chair, I have the privilege to work with a highly qualified and diverse group of board colleagues
who bring thought leadership, perspective and accountability to their roles in overseeing the talented executive
team at Anthem. Your Board is highly diverse in terms of background, expertise, ethnicity and gender, including
four women directors and four directors from diverse ethnicities. Diverse directors hold the key leadership
positions of Chair of the Board, Chair of the Audit Committee, Chair of the Governance Committee and
President and CEO.
Refreshing your Board with new perspectives and ideas is critical to ensuring that it remains strategic, inclusive
and forward-looking. Each year, we conduct a rigorous evaluation process, including board and individual
director evaluations facilitated by an external party. Over the past couple of years, three new directors have
joined the Board and two directors have retired. In addition, George Schaefer will be retiring at the Annual
Meeting. The Board would like to recognize George for his significant contributions to the Company’s success
and his exemplary service to the Board in many roles over the years, including Independent Chair of the Board,
Lead Director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
Environmental, Social & Governance (ES&G). We believe our ES&G practices promote the long-term
interests of our shareholders and strengthen Board and management accountability. The Board’s Governance
Committee is responsible for establishing the Company’s corporate governance practices, as well as monitoring
the Company’s social responsibility and environmental sustainability initiatives. As part of the Committee’s
ongoing review of our corporate governance practices, the Company’s governing documents were amended
last year to give shareholders the right to call a special meeting. We are proud that the Company was named
to the 2018 Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America in recognition of our ES&G practices.
On behalf of the Board, thank you for investing in Anthem. We hope to see you at the Annual Meeting.
Elizabeth E. Tallett
Independent Chair of the Board 