TO OUR INVESTORS,
For more than a decade, AT&T has successfully satisfied our customers’ exploding appetite
for mobile connectivity. Our significant investments over that time have driven our success,
as we’ve led our industry through a global revolution in making the internet mobile. Today,
we continue moving forward to deliver on the promise of those investments and create
additional value for you, our shareholders.
We’re doing this at a time when the technology, media and telecommunications sectors
are in the midst of a new revolution, as consumers rapidly change how they engage with
content. As a truly modern media company, AT&T is well-positioned to once again lead this
next revolution.
With our acquisition of Time Warner – now known as WarnerMedia – we have brought
together one of the best collections of premium video content, a large base of direct-toconsumer relationships, high-speed networks optimized for video, and an advertising
technology platform that will make premium video advertising more relevant and valuable.
We believe this combination of capabilities has positioned us to thrive in the coming years,
as both the communications and entertainment sectors undergo serious transformations
driven by new innovations in technology and changing customer demands.
Randall Stephenson
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
and President, AT&T Inc.
AT&T 2018 ANNUAL REPORT
.
 2 .
In communications, dramatic improvements in mobile technology are driving more
broadband and video consumption to smartphones and tablets. And as we roll out our
5G network – with an even faster and more responsive experience – those trends toward
mobility will only accelerate.
In entertainment, the practice of setting aside time to watch particular TV programs is giving
way to on-demand streaming services with extensive libraries of content made readily
available behind easy-to-access user interfaces. As a result, media companies that produce
shows and movies have recognized that they can no longer rely exclusively on wholesale
distribution of their content through satellite and cable companies. While those relationships
will continue to be important distribution channels, media companies must also develop
direct consumer relationships for their content to reach the broadest possible audience.
Equally important in this shifting landscape of content and distribution are advertisers. They
are pleading for premium video advertising models that perform as well as digital models.
We intend to capitalize on this changing landscape as a modern media company built to
delight our customers with new services that can be delivered by a company with the new
assets and capabilities of AT&T.
It starts with more than 170 million direct-to-consumer relationships across our wireless,
pay-TV and broadband businesses in the United States, wireless in Mexico and DIRECTV in Latin
America. This number grows to more than 370 million when we include WarnerMedia’s digital
properties such as CNN.com, Bleacher Report and Otter Media.
We are building a broad portfolio of video services to satisfy the media and entertainment
needs of every consumer, from those who demand a premium 4K TV experience with extensive
sports and content libraries to those who are more price-conscious and want smaller packages
of content.
 “We intend to capitalize on this changing
landscape as a modern media company built to
delight our customers with new services . . . ”
A MODERN
MEDIA COMPANY
.
 3 .
We’re also working on an exciting new premium subscription-video-on-demand service from
WarnerMedia that will draw on the rich and deep content libraries of HBO, Warner Bros.
and Turner. We expect to introduce this service by the end of 2019, and we believe it will be a
compelling offer that drives significant demand.
This combination of premium video content and our direct-to-consumer relationships
provides us with a valuable resource: data-driven insights we can use to develop new
advertising models and make ads more relevant to consumers. Our newly formed advertising
technology company, Xandr, will add considerable new value to both our communications
and entertainment businesses.
Bringing together all these capabilities sets up a virtuous cycle: Great content drives
deeper customer engagement. Deeper engagement provides greater customer insights
into the content our customers enjoy. Those insights inform the creation of new content
and facilitate relevant targeted advertising that drives deeper engagement. And the
cycle repeats.
Premium content increases
consumer engagement.
Broad direct-to-consumer
relationships inform the creation
and curation of new content.
Advertising technology makes ads
more relevant and improves the
overall experience for consumers
and advertisers alike.
High-speed wireless and wireline
networks deliver the bandwidth
needed to keep up with demand
for premium content.
 “Our newly formed advertising technology
 company, Xandr, will add considerable
 new value to both our communications
 and entertainment businesses.”
PREMIUM
CONTENT
ADVERTISING
TECHNOLOGY
D2C
DISTRIBUTION
HIGH-SPEED
NETWORKS
CONSUMER
DATA INSIGHTS
AT&T 2018 ANNUAL REPORT
.
 4 .
We’re building this new kind of company on a strong foundation.
Here’s a high-level view:
AT&T’s profits and cash flow are largely driven by our Mobility business, which last
year was recognized as having the #1 U.S. wireless network.¹ As you’ll see in the
chart below, following the Time Warner acquisition, nearly half of our company’s
EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) comes from
Mobility. We had a strong 2018, and that momentum has carried into this year as well.
In addition, we’re ahead of schedule in our deployment of FirstNet, the nationwide
network for first responders. And we’re leveraging this major infrastructure
investment as an opportunity to install 5G-capable radios on our cell towers. These
radios can be upgraded to 5G through a simple software update, giving us a decided
speed and cost advantage as we scale our rollout of mobile 5G in the years to come.
Our next-largest business unit by EBITDA is WarnerMedia, which also just came
off a strong year. On a comparable basis, it grew revenues 5.5% and EBITDA 7%2
in 2018, thanks to solid performance from all three of its business units – Turner,
Home Box Office and Warner Bros.
Business Wireline represents the services we sell to businesses. Quarter-in and
quarter-out, it generates steady profit and cash flow. Revenues may fluctuate as big
business customers continue their migration to wireless and cloud-based services,
but this business has consistently produced EBITDA in the $2.5 billion range in each
of the past 12 quarters.
The Entertainment Group is our video and broadband business. We’ve been
aggressively investing in the Entertainment Group for the past several years,
including building out our fiber footprint. Our fiber deployment is driving
momentum in our broadband business. Fiber is the backbone of our network and
key to our plans for 5G. We’re on track to reach 22 million consumer and business
locations with fiber by the middle of 2019.
A STRONG
FOUNDATION:
AT&T TODAY
AT&T’s wireless
network was named
the best in the U.S.
for overall national
performance by GWS.1
WIRELESS
NETWORK
REVENUES3
ADJUSTED
EBITDA4 49% 18% 17% 15% 1%
MOBILITY
ENTERTAINMENT
GROUP
ENTERTAINMENT
GROUP
MOBILITY
WARNERMEDIA
WARNERMEDIA
BUSINESS
WIRELINE
BUSINESS
WIRELINE
LATIN AMERICA/
OTHER
LATIN AMERICA/
OTHER
39% 17% 14% 25% 5%
#1
.
 5 .
We’ve also been investing in our internet video streaming platforms – DIRECTV
NOW and WatchTV. We’ve worked diligently to get these offerings just right since
first introducing DIRECTV NOW in 2016, from managing content costs to optimizing
pricing to match customer value.
As a result of these initiatives, we expect Entertainment Group EBITDA to be stable
in 2019.
Our Latin America business had a very solid 2018 and entered this year with a lot of
momentum. Vrio, our TV business in Latin America, continued to grow subscribers
and generate positive cash flow. In Mexico, we added 3.2 million mobile subscribers
last year. Over the last 3½ years, we’ve built a premier nationwide LTE network in
Mexico. We essentially completed that network build last year, which lowers our
future capital requirements and gives us line of sight to positive EBITDA in Mexico in
the second half of 2019.
Finally, Xandr – our newest business – is already contributing strong revenue
and EBITDA growth. It significantly deepened our data analytics capabilities with
the foundational acquisition of AppNexus and is now making good progress in
applying data-driven insights to make our advertising inventory more relevant
and valuable.
AT&T is not only growing today but is also well-positioned for the future. In 2019,
we plan to invest about $23 billion of capital into our growth areas.5
 Even after making
those investments, we expect to generate free cash flow in the $26 billion range this
year.6
 After paying more than $14 billion in dividends, we expect to have about $12 billion of
discretionary cash flow. And that cash flow is earmarked for paying down our debt from the
Time Warner acquisition. We’ll be at a more comfortable net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio
in the 2.5x range by year-end 2019, and we will continue to de-lever after that.
CAPITAL
ALLOCATION
“We’re confident in our ability to deliver
 on our 2019 priorities: pay down our debt,
continue to invest in our growth areas and
 deliver a steady, consistent dividend to you.”
AT&T 2018 ANNUAL REPORT
.
 6 .
We have put a lot of thought and energy into ensuring that our balance sheet is solid.
We’ve structured our debt to ensure that we have no outsized maturities for the next
five years. In addition, we have locked in historically low fixed-interest rates on the vast
majority of our debt, removing any significant exposure to interest rate swings. Our pension
liabilities are essentially fully funded and will require very little additional funding over the
next few years.
Rest assured, our dividend remains an important way we return value to you, our shareholders.
In December, the board of directors approved an increase in the company’s quarterly dividend
for the 35th consecutive year. Even with that increase, we expect our dividend payout ratio to
be in the high 50s% range of free cash flow this year.7
We expect to reach a $2.5 billion merger synergy run rate from WarnerMedia by year-end
2021. Since day one, the merger has been accretive to earnings per share, free cash flow and
dividend coverage.
Above all, we’re confident in our ability to deliver on our 2019 priorities: pay down our debt,
continue to invest in our growth areas and deliver a steady, consistent dividend to you.
Our overall financial outlook for 2019 includes:8
Free cash flow in the $26 billion range;
Dividend payout ratio in the high 50s% range;
End-of-year net debt-to-EBITDA ratio, on an adjusted basis, in the 2.5x range;
Gross capital investment in the $23 billion range; and
Adjusted EPS growth in the low single digits.
We have the right assets and strategy for long-term, sustainable growth in a rapidly evolving
marketplace. Our focus is on execution. Since we closed the Time Warner deal last June, the
integration has gone well. We’ve brought together two companies with different cultures, while
preserving the creative energy, editorial independence and other unique qualities that made
Turner, Home Box Office and Warner Bros. so attractive to us in the first place. We continue to
be a leader in the industry for creative leadership and talent, and we intend to continue giving
them the freedom to keep doing what they do best.
FINANCIAL
OUTLOOK
EXECUTING ON
OUR STRATEGY
.
 7 .
As we build for the future, we’ll continue to focus on running our company with the same
rigor and discipline you’ve come to expect from us. Our focus includes creating customer
experiences that are effortless, imaginative and innovative across our entire business and at
every customer touchpoint.
As we deliver those experiences, our businesses will work together to unlock new value for
customers and investors. So we’ve organized the company to balance the need for autonomy,
speed and agility with the power of collaboration and scale.
Beginning on page 12, we provide a look at each of our four businesses and their priorities
for 2019 and beyond.
We’ll also continue to grow as a truly data-powered company. We’ll find more and more ways
to effectively and responsibly use data to better serve our customers and innovate with new
services and business models. As we do that, we’re committed to four privacy principles:
Being open and honest
about how we use your data.
Giving you choices about
how we use your data.
Using strong safeguards to keep
your data confidential and secure.
Managing data in a respectful,
deliberate way to maintain the
trust our customers have
placed in us.
TRANSPARENCY
CHOICE & CONTROL
SECURITY
INTEGRITY
AT&T 2018 ANNUAL REPORT
.
 8 .
DRIVEN BY
OUR VALUES
In support of these principles, we’re advocating for Congress to pass a law that champions
consumer privacy and promotes accountability; fosters innovation and competitiveness;
harmonizes regulations across federal and state jurisdictions; and works with the laws of
other countries to protect consumer privacy on a global scale.
Our values underpin everything we do. These core beliefs – listed on page 1 – unite our
people no matter where they work or live. We bring them to life in all that we do for our
customers and in our every interaction with one another. They also feed into our long-term
strategy to make a positive contribution to society as a responsible corporate citizen. That
role includes our commitment to the environment, which we advanced in 2018 by becoming
one of the largest corporate purchasers of renewable energy in the U.S., investing in up to
820 megawatts of wind energy to date. That’s enough energy capacity to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions equivalent to taking more than 530,000 cars off the road for one year. It’s just
one way we are working to achieve our goal to enable carbon savings 10 times the carbon
footprint of our operations by 2025.
Our Aspire and ESCUELA+ education programs are in their second decade of driving
innovation in education for underserved and underrepresented populations in the U.S. and
Latin America. We’re applying many of the tools and learnings from Aspire as we continue
to reskill our own global workforce for the future. Our reskilling program has been cited as a
national model. It has helped provide our employees and others with the skills they need for
the high-tech jobs of today and tomorrow.
We’re also focused on developing solutions for the challenges faced by the communities we
serve. Our strong belief that we can make a positive difference in our communities inspired
the launch of AT&T BELIEVESSM, starting with Believe Chicago. It’s our effort to bring training,
economic opportunity and hope to our fellow citizens in neighborhoods heavily impacted by
violence. We have also begun similar initiatives to create positive change in other local, urban
communities across the country, including Atlanta, Dallas and New York.
Finally, I am proud of our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workforce. WarnerMedia’s
new Diversity & Inclusion Policy, announced in September, is a pioneering media industry
commitment to give more opportunities to women, people of color and individuals from
other underrepresented groups – both in front of and behind the camera.
We became one
of the largest
corporate buyers of
clean energy in the U.S.,
with 820 megawatts
of wind energy
purchased to date.
 “We have the right assets and strategy
 for long-term, sustainable growth in a
 rapidly evolving marketplace.”
CLEAN
ENERGY
.
 9 .
Randall Stephenson
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, AT&T Inc.
February 8, 2019
 “Our strong position and the amazing
 opportunities ahead of us are only possible
 due to the energy and commitment of our
 management and employee team.”
Our strong position and the amazing opportunities ahead of us are only possible due to the
energy and commitment of our management and employee team. I can’t thank them enough
for their eagerness to constantly adapt to the changes in our company, our industry and our
world – always looking for better ways to manage our business and serve our customers. In
the midst of all the changes swirling around us, they’ve stayed true to the spirit of service
that’s always been at the heart of AT&T. So, it was no surprise that, once again, we saw our
employees repeatedly rise to the occasion in response to hurricanes, floods, wildfires and
blizzards – working around the clock to reconnect people and communities and report the
news. Simply put, I know of no company anywhere that’s blessed with finer people.
I’m also grateful to our world-class board of directors for the wisdom, perspective and
diversity of experience they bring to AT&T’s governance. They constantly push us, challenge
our assumptions and make us view issues and opportunities from new angles. From our
strategy and business operations to our social responsibility initiatives, we bring them our
plans, and they make them better every time.Finally, I want you to know how much our company and I have appreciated your support these
past few years, as we aggressively invested in our businesses and networks, acquired critical
new assets and worked for significant tax and regulatory reform. All of these elements have
laid the groundwork for the unique position we’re in today. I’m confident we have the right
assets, the right strategy and the right team to execute on the opportunities ahead of us to
create value for you.