Dear Fellow Stockholders:
We are pleased to invite you to the 2019 annual meeting of
stockholders, to be held April 24, 2019 at 10:00 a.m.,
Eastern time, at the Hilton Charlotte Center City on 222
East Third Street in Charlotte, North Carolina.
During the meeting, we will provide an update on the
company and how Responsible Growth delivered for
stockholders in 2018. It’s also a good opportunity for us to
hear directly from you.
Your voice and your vote are important. For the 2019
annual meeting of stockholders, Bank of America again will
make a $1 charitable donation for every stockholder
account that votes.
This year, we will make contributions to the American Red
Cross. Your voting participation in the 2018 annual
meeting of stockholders resulted in our contributing
$919,000 to Habitat for Humanity.
Please read the proxy materials and follow the voting
instructions to ensure your shares are represented at the
meeting.
Sincerely,
Brian Moynihan
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Dear Fellow Stockholders:
The independent directors and I join Brian in inviting you to
attend our company’s 2019 annual meeting
of stockholders.
The Board values input from our stockholders as the
company executes our long-term strategy. As the Board’s
Lead Independent Director, I meet regularly with investors. I
share investors’ viewpoints with the Board, and that input
enhances our decision-making.
During 2018, our dialogue again covered broad-ranging
topics, including the company’s financial success; the
Board’s governance practices and composition; the Board’s
role in strategic planning, risk management, and in
overseeing the company’s Responsible Growth execution;
the company’s environmental and social initiatives; and my
role as Lead Independent Director.
So that all stockholders have the opportunity to hear
directly from our Board members, video interviews of each
director discussing our company’s governance practices
and what Responsible Growth means to us are available at
www.bankofamerica.com/annualmeeting.
I encourage you to read our 2019 Proxy Statement, our
2018 Annual Report, and the other proxy materials.
Our Board remains committed to building long-term value
in the company and returning excess capital to our
stockholders. On behalf of the directors, I join Brian and
the management team in thanking you for choosing to
invest in Bank of America.
Sincerely,
Jack O. Bovender, Jr.
Lead Independent Director