Chairman’s Letter to
Shareholders and Friends
It’s an extraordinary time to be at Capital One.
In 2018, we advanced our quest to build an
enduringly great franchise with the scale, brand,
capabilities, and talent to succeed in a world being
revolutionized by technology and data. Capital One
delivered record revenues and profits, even as
we continued our investments in a bold, strategic
agenda. We welcomed millions of new customers
and announced an exciting partnership with
Walmart. Thousands of talented and diverse
professionals, from interns to executives, joined
Capital One and we are consistently cited as
one of the best places to work in America. We
accelerated our progress on our transformational
journey, and we are now one of the most cloudcapable companies in the world.
Our financial results in 2018 were rooted in years
of previous choices about growth, investments, and
risk management. Those choices often resulted in
near-term costs, but they also planted the seeds
of future growth and financial returns. In 2018,
the seeds of our investments bore fruit. Capital One
delivered strong growth in earnings and returns.
We posted record revenue of $28.1 billion and
record earnings per share (EPS) of $11.82. EPS net
of adjustments was $10.88, up 41% from 2017.*
Our return on average tangible common equity
was 18.6%, up from 6.2% in 2017, or 12.0% as
adjusted for the impact of the U.S. tax reform of
$1.77 billion. Our tangible book value per share
increased 14.8% to $69.20.
Financial markets, however, had a challenging year in
2018. All major stock, bond, and commodity indexes
declined. It was worse for bank stocks. The KBW
Bank Index declined 19.6% in 2018 and fell by 15.5%
in December alone, its worst month since February
2009. Consumer lenders were hit even harder.
Our one-year total shareholder return (TSR), which
includes the combined effect of share price change
plus common dividends, was negative 22.8%, modestly
lower than the KBW Bank Index TSR of negative 17.7%.
From our IPO in 1994 to the end of 2018, an investment
in Capital One has delivered a TSR of 1,700%.
We remain focused on building a company that
can generate and sustain solid growth in EPS and
tangible book value per share, as well as strong
returns on tangible common equity. We believe
our investments in products, technology, brand,
and resilience will drive growth, improved efficiency,
increased earnings power, and strong capital
generation over time. Last year was the latest
chapter in an exciting journey.
An Improbable Story
This year we will celebrate our 25th anniversary as
a public company. We were founded on the belief
that the banking industry would be revolutionized
by information and technology, beginning with
credit cards. Back then, credit cards were a onesize-fits-all business that relied on judgmental
decision-making by underwriters and marketers.
There were few data-driven decisions and a whole
lot of conventional wisdom. But we saw credit cards
as an information-based technology business rather
than a lending business, one powered by worldclass analysts leveraging the latest technology,
massive amounts of information, statistical
modeling, and the scientific testing of thousands
of ideas. We set out to turn one-size-fits-all into
“mass customization,” delivering the right product
to the right customer at the right time and at the
right price. We believed that by de-averaging the
market, we could smash the price of credit and
also democratize it.
Our vision wasn’t just about credit cards. We
thought that credit cards would be the first banking
product to be transformed because they were
direct-marketed, national in scope, and there
was great financial leverage in getting marketing
and credit risk decisions right. We believed that if we
created a company with these capabilities, we would
be positioned at the forefront of the digital
revolution that would ultimately sweep across all of
the banking industry. Our rallying cry was, “Build a
technology company that does banking, and compete
against banks that use technology.”
Capital One Was
the Original “FinTech”
It didn’t come easy at first. We had more passion
than customers and more belief than believers.
The term didn’t exist yet, but in the early days of
Capital One, we were a FinTech. For a while it was
unclear if our little company would get a chance to
make a big impact. We were a start-up: recruiting
talent, building modern technology from scratch,
conducting tests, and incubating results. And all
along the way, we worked to keep the dream alive.
While the initial idea came quickly, it took five lonely
years until we had our first success. Against all
odds, it finally worked, and we haven’t looked back.
We built one of the nation’s largest credit card
businesses and then did the same thing in auto
finance and small business cards. We expanded to
the United Kingdom and Canada. A decade after
our IPO, we decided to take on the part of banking
that will be the last to evolve, retail banking. We are
now the nation’s fifth-largest consumer bank and
eighth-largest bank overall.
We’re Building a Technology
Company that Does Banking
As the world healed from the wounds of the Great
Recession, technology continued its march into every
corner of our lives. Entire industries disappeared, and
some of America’s greatest brands fell victim to the
digital revolution. New industries were born, and their
leaders are now the most valuable companies in the
world. But the digital revolution didn’t just create new
industries. Advances in technology were having a
profound effect on all businesses, and the banking
industry was no exception. As the digital revolution
accelerated, we cheered. Because Capital One was
built to capitalize on the changing industry structure.
That’s who we are.
In 2012, as Capital One rounded the corner of
the economic crisis and absorbed two large and
successful acquisitions, we took stock of the
accelerating change that was happening all around us.
3
4
5
And again, we took an outsider’s view. To see the
future of banking, we didn’t look at how banking
worked or what other banks were doing. We looked
instead at how technology was changing our lives.
We reveled in the miracle that Google could find
any information, anywhere in the world, in a fraction
of a second. We saw how Waze could instantly find
the fastest route and immediately adapt it if traffic
changed. And we marveled at how Netflix could
somehow find a movie you love, even though you
had never heard of it and weren’t looking for it in the
first place. These remarkable capabilities share the
same DNA and are indicative of the destination for all
customer experiences: real-time and intelligent. In the
consumer’s language, they bring instant solutions,
customized for you, wherever and whenever you want
them. Banking is an inherently digital product, and its
destination will inexorably be the same. Consumers
will demand instant solutions customized to them.
That is where winning is.
But banks aren’t built to deliver real-time and
intelligent solutions. In fact, they are built for just
the opposite. They are built on legacy technology
optimized for batch processing. They employ
complex, manual processes that operate in
organizational silos. And many have corporate
cultures that are resistant to change. Even
Capital One, which two decades before had been
designed around technology and information, was
not designed for a world that was rapidly moving
to real-time and intelligent solutions. And so
years ago, as we internalized the acceleration
of technology into every corner of our society, two
truths became clear. First, the digital revolution
would change everything in banking. And second,
to capitalize on it, we would need to rebuild our
bank from the bottom of the tech stack up. Despite
our having done that very thing twenty years
before, the world had moved so much that we—
and pretty much all of corporate America—had
been stranded with insufficient tech talent and
antiquated foundational technology, data
ecosystems, and methods of working. The
common approach in corporate America is to work
forward from where you are rather than backward
from what technology enables. That leads to simply
digitizing analog activities or building customerfacing apps on top of outdated infrastructure.
Companies are bolting new technology capabilities
onto legacy operations or trying to quarantine
their modern technology and innovation to select
pockets of the organization. But to win, we know
that we need to rethink how banking works and
build a technology company that does banking.
Strikingly, our rallying cry today is the same as it
was in the beginning: “Build a technology company
that does banking, and compete against banks that
use technology.”
And so we went all in. For years, we have been
building a leading technology company that
can thrive in a world being revolutionized by
software and data. Today, 85% of our technology
workforce are engineers. Capital One has embraced
advanced technology strategies and modern data
environments. We have adopted agile management
practices, and not just for software delivery. Teams
across Capital One—even in places like Legal and
Audit—are deploying innovative approaches to get
work done and drive results. We employ a DevOps
culture with a “You Built It, You Own It” mindset.
We harness highly flexible APIs and use microservices
to deliver and deploy software. We’ve been building
APIs for years, and today we have thousands that
serve as the backbone for billions of customer
transactions every year. The vast majority of our
operating and customer-facing applications operate
in the cloud, which unleashes our associates to
design real-time, intelligent experiences that work
backwards from our customers’ needs. We are
now considered one of the most cloud-forward
companies in the world. In 2018, we made significant
progress on our technology journey, and we will
continue to invest to transform our infrastructure,
data, and technology tools.
We’re Empowering
Customers with Great
Digital Experiences
Building on years of foundational investments,
we continued to accelerate the delivery of branddefining customer experiences in 2018. Each month,
tens of millions of customers visit Capital One’s online
and mobile customer servicing platform. Our tools
provide an exceptional customer experience and have
earned some of our highest net promoter scores we
have ever measured. For the second year in a row,
Capital One was awarded the J.D. Power
®
 award for
the “Highest in Overall U.S. Banking App Satisfaction.”
If you’re a customer and you haven’t experienced how
our mobile app can make your life easier, download
it today and see what people are talking about.
Our consumer digital experiences are not limited
to our mobile app. CreditWise
®
 is a free app available
to everyone. It monitors your credit score, helps you
understand and improve your score, and protects
against identity theft and fraud. We are harnessing
credit card transaction data and machine learning
to deliver proactive insights to customers about
their spending and to help detect problems they
might miss. Was the double charge at the pharmacy
an accident? Did the 22% increase to last month’s
cable bill make sense? Did you mean to leave that
huge tip at dinner last night?
Capital One provides real-time purchase notifications
every time your card is used, and you can instantly lock
your card if it’s misplaced or stolen. We provide virtual
We’re reimagining and reinventing our talent
model, infrastructure, data, tools, and customer
experience. In 2018, we accelerated our
technology transformation and continued to be
a leading voice in the technology community.
We Are Building a
Technology Company
All customer experiences—
inside and outside of banking—
will be real-time and intelligent.
Capital One’s digital tools help
customers understand their
spending, improve their credit
score, protect their identity—
or even find their next car.
Modern Digital Tools 
6
7
communities you will still find a bank on every
corner. But with virtually every banking service now
available online or in our mobile app, we’re making
digital banking easy. From any computer or
smartphone, you can open a Capital One checking
or savings account in five minutes. You can earn one
of the best savings rates in the country, a free debit
card with access to thousands of fee-free ATMs, and
the power of Capital One’s award-winning mobile
app. Physical presence is important too, but its role
is changing. Instead of having a branch on every
corner to service transactions, we are building
Capital One Cafés: iconic showrooms in iconic urban
locations, where customers can experience the best
of Capital One’s products, technology, people, and
service. Visitors can explore our digital experiences,
meet with a Capital One Money Coach, or relax and
enjoy free WiFi and a cup of Peet’s Coffee
®
. Our
traditional branches will be convenient and
accessible for important customer service needs
and complex transactions.
In the late 1990s, we saw that auto lending was
ripe for transformation. It was an information-rich
business where success was driven by predicting
consumers’ creditworthiness and the likely value
of their cars in the future. But the industry was
based on judgmental decision-making and rules
of thumb, and we realized that leveraging our
information-based strategy would allow Capital One
to minimize credit losses and thereby provide better
deals for consumers and better solutions for auto
dealers. We made our first auto loan in 1998, and
twenty years later we are one of the largest auto
lenders in America. We serve dealers and consumers
across the country and are investing in technology
to enhance the customer experience for both
groups. The technology transformation of the
industry will only accelerate from here. Consumers
now go online to research cars and shop for the
best price. But until recently, they couldn’t find out
what the financing would be—based on their own
financial circumstances. Now, Auto Navigator
®
 from
Capital One
®
 allows consumers to search millions of
cars at dealers across the country, and instantly get
pre-qualified for financing, customized to them.
Online or on your phone, Auto Navigator gives car
buyers the knowledge and confidence to find the
car they want and know exactly what they’re paying,
before they ever step foot on a dealer’s lot.
For decades, commercial banking worked the same
way: loan underwriting was manual and subjective,
and banks served local needs with generalist
bankers. But commercial banking is being
transformed by technology, and an industry
once built on local generalists is moving to one
based on national specialists who deeply
understand the business and risks of their clients.
We’re building a commercial bank for the future,
with scale and specialized capabilities in areas
like healthcare lending, REITs, and multifamily
real estate. Specialized expertise and technology
are helping Capital One manage risk and unlock
growth opportunities. We’re grateful to the
thousands of businesses across the country that
depend on our teams and our capital to help them
succeed and grow.
credit card numbers—numbers that are integrated
into your Capital One account but are unique and
merchant-specific—so customers can safely shop
online without sharing their real credit card numbers.
We have features that help online shoppers save
money by automatically searching for the best prices
across the internet, finding online coupons, and
offering merchant-funded rewards. Across the
company, we’re building customer experiences that
are real-time and intelligent.
Our Businesses Are
Well-Positioned to Thrive
At Capital One, we started our journey 100 years later
than most banks. In order to succeed, we didn’t
try doing what other banks do. We carefully chose
which banking businesses to be in and focused
on building scale positions where scale mattered
most. For each of our businesses, we tried to
identify the winning model of the future and then tried
to build that. In 2018, our lines of business delivered
resilient growth and strong profitability, and they
are well-positioned to thrive in the years ahead.
Our credit card business is powered by data and
analytics and a passion to help people use credit
wisely. We serve tens of millions of customers
across the credit spectrum. We continue to invest
heavily in rewards products, marketing programs,
and digital experiences to attract and serve heavy
spenders. In 2018, our card business delivered
record returns, resilient growth, and continued
operating efficiency gains. In July, we announced
a long-term agreement to be the exclusive issuer
of co-branded and private-label credit cards for
Walmart, the world’s largest retailer. And in January
2019, we announced an agreement to acquire
approximately $9 billion of existing Walmart credit
card loans at a favorable price and terms. We’re eager
to work with Walmart to deliver amazing value,
deepen customer relationships, and use technology
and digital innovation to create exceptional
experiences for customers across America.
One of the last parts of banking to be transformed
will be local banking and deposits. On the shoulders
of our technology transformation, we are building the
retail bank of the future. There are almost 100,000
bank branches in America, and in many cities and
Millions of new customers joined Capital One
in 2018, and they are making Capital One
their card of choice. Customers are earning
amazing rewards with no limits, gotchas, or
fine print. What’s in your wallet?
®
Clear and Compelling
Products
We’re enabling great talent with great spaces.
Our award-winning office designs promote
creativity and collaboration. In 2018, we opened
our new headquarters in McLean, Virginia, where
engineers, designers, and data scientists work
side by side to imagine the next great chapter
of Capital One.
Dynamic Work Spaces
8
9
We Invested to
Grow Our Franchise
In 2018, we spent $2.2 billion on hard-hitting
marketing and advertising to bring our innovative
products to life. Our investments drove solid
customer and deposit growth in the retail bank,
strong credit card account growth, and 15%
growth in Domestic Card purchase volume. In
2018, we introduced Savor
®
, a credit card that pays
4% unlimited rewards on dining and entertainment.
Our distinctive marketing helped drive strong
results and we welcomed new and engaged
upmarket customers. At the same time, our “Banking
Reimagined” advertising campaign touted our
digital banking tools and the Capital One Café
experience. In our Spark
®
 small business card
marketing, we used real Capital One small business
customers to provide powerful testimonials about
how 2% unlimited rewards are helping them invest
in their businesses. Jennifer Garner and Samuel L.
Jackson continued to make the clear, persuasive
case that Venture
®
 and Quicksilver
®
 cards should
be in your wallet. With Venture, travel lovers earn
unlimited 2X miles on every purchase, every day.
And with Quicksilver, you earn unlimited 1.5% cash
back. These cards are simple, compelling products
with some of the highest rewards in the industry.
Millions of customers are earning billions of dollars
of rewards, making Capital One their card of choice.
We expanded our customer rewards programs,
providing access to sporting events and exclusive
travel, food, and music experiences. And we became
the sponsor of the Capital One Arena in our
hometown of Washington, D.C. The Capitals’ run
to the Stanley Cup helped boost Capital One’s local
and national exposure, and fans and associates
enjoyed two months of late-night (and nail-biting)
excitement during the NHL playoffs.
As people change how they consume media and
interact with brands, we continued to improve the
efficiency and efficacy of our marketing through
investments in data and technology. Brands and
marketers are at an inflection point, and the winners
will have both a great story to tell and highly targeted
opportunities to engage consumers in more relevant
ways, spend efficiently at scale, and measure and
maximize their investments in real-time.
Join Us on Our Journey
Our highest calling has always been to attract and
inspire the world’s best talent. Our people are the
heart of Capital One. The phone representative who
helps calm a distraught fraud victim. The commercial
banker who helps an entrepreneur open a new
location. And the Capital One data scientist who
volunteers to teach coding to Washington, D.C.,
third-graders. Our associates bring diverse
experiences and perspectives to the office, and they
serve our customers and communities with
generosity and ingenuity. They make Capital One
special, and I am incredibly fortunate to lead such a
talented team.
In 2018, over 9,000 associates joined Capital One.
Of those, more than 1,000 were recent college
graduates who made Capital One their first job. We
hired thousands of engineers, data scientists,
designers, product managers, and cyber professionals
who joined our existing team to challenge the
conventions of traditional banking. Thousands of
others brought experience and expertise in areas
such as finance, operations, and customer care.
Our technology transformation over the last six
years has been accelerated by talented digital
associates. We have one of the most highly regarded
technology internship programs in the nation.
And our Technology Development Program (TDP),
a two-year rotational accelerator for high-performing
software, data, and cybersecurity engineers, is
launching hundreds of careers across the company
for our college and graduate school hires. If you’re
searching for your first job or your next job, come
see us on campus; find our associates at technology
forums like Grace Hopper, SXSW, or AWS re:Invent;
or check us out at www.capitalonecareers.com.
Since the beginning of 2018, we welcomed
three new independent board members whose
experiences and expertise are rooted in technology
and innovation. Aparna Chennapragada is Vice
President, Augmented Reality at Google, and she is
a respected expert in artificial intelligence, machine
learning, and mobile strategy. Eli Leenaars is
Vice Chairman of the Global Wealth Management
Division at UBS Group AG with 30 years of experience
in financial services, including overseeing the
remarkable growth of ING Direct in the U.S. He
brings tremendous perspective about how our
industry will be reinvented through the use of data,
technology, and brand. François Locoh-Donou is
the President and CEO of F5 Networks, Inc., and brings
nearly two decades of experience in enterprise
technology and building and managing a wide
range of global products, teams, and operations.
We are thrilled to welcome these leaders to
Capital One, and their breadth of experiences will
be invaluable as we continue our transformative
technology and digital journey.
We’re Empowering
Our Associates to
Do Their Best Work
Attracting great talent is only part of the Capital One
story. Since our founding days, we have invested in
the growth and development of every associate, from
college interns to experienced executives. We provide
base pay at a minimum of $15 per hour for all
U.S.-based roles. We are focused on increasing
the representation of women and people of color
across the organization and building a diverse and
inclusive workplace. We have seven thriving Business
Resource Groups (BRGs), communities of associates,
partners, and allies that support Capital One’s
growing diverse and underrepresented populations.
These organizations provide opportunities for
development, education, and networking that help
associates fulfill their potential.
Our differences make us more innovative, nimble,
and resilient. Our seven Business Resource Groups
were created to support Capital One’s growing
diverse populations. These groups help attract,
retain, and develop diverse talent: people who are
driving our company forward.
Diversity and Inclusion
Is a Cornerstone
of Our Culture
Earn unlimited 4% cash back on dining and
entertainment. 4% at the movies. 4% at the
big game. 4% on a first date. Whether it’s food
or fun, when you go out, you cash in with the
Capital One Savor Card.
Savor Rewards
from Capital One
10 11
a global initiative of 154 leading companies
committed to 100% renewable power. In 2018, we
achieved carbon neutrality on direct greenhouse
gas emissions. All new office construction and large
renovations are certified LEED
®
 Silver or higher, and
our new corporate headquarters in McLean, Virginia,
will be certified LEED Gold in 2019. Capital One’s
Corporate Social Responsibility report, available
on our website, provides greater detail about our
sustainability efforts and social impact.
The Opportunity
In our 25 years as a public company, Capital One
has come a long way. We have grown from a small,
credit card start-up into one of the largest, fastestgrowing, and most dynamic companies in America.
The Capital One story is built upon millions of little
stories. An immigrant building her credit and buying
a home. A 22-year-old software engineer accepting
a job to join a bank (of all things!) after graduation.
And a small business owner using his Spark rewards
card to pay for his employees’ healthcare. We’ve
helped transform cities and communities by
attracting incredibly talented associates with the
audacity to think they can change the world and
the humility to understand they need a whole lot
of help to make it happen. We’ve seen enormous
change in our culture and our society, but the
change that took place over Capital One’s first
25 years will pale in comparison to the quarter
century that’s about to unfold. And we are wellpositioned to thrive as technology changes
everything. I am inspired by our customers who trust
us to serve them each day with both wisdom and
humanity. And I am humbled by the opportunity
to lead 50,000 associates who are all-in to change
banking for good.
Richard D. Fairbank
Chairman, CEO and President
We are widely recognized as a great place to work,
and our working environment and employment
practices continue to garner recognition. We were
once again named one of Fortune magazine’s
“100 Best Companies to Work For” (#17), our twelfth
time on this prestigious list, and we ranked #37 on
Fortune’s annual list of the “Best Workplaces for
Diversity.” We were recognized by Disability:IN as
a “Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion” with a
100% Disability Equality Index, and we were ranked
as the #3 “Best Adoption-Friendly Workplace” by the
Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption. We were
recognized for our support of our military, including
being named by Military Times as “Best for Vets.”
We also earned external recognition for strengthening
our communities, caring for associates and their
families, providing flexibility and work-life balance,
and creating innovative workspaces.
We continue to look for ways to improve our
associate experience and are focused on promoting
leadership, improving inclusion, expanding skills
training, and helping associates to develop their
careers. Each year, we survey all of our associates
and they share with me how they feel about
working at Capital One. Morale and engagement
scores continued to be strong in 2018. As we
turn the corner on our technology transformation,
we are reimagining how we work. Great companies
must be both well-managed and nimble and we
are focused on making it faster and easier to build
software, serve our customers, and imagine the
next bold chapter of Capital One.
We Make Our
Communities Better
Capital One has a direct impact on improving millions
of lives in communities across our associate and
customer footprint. Our associates are spread across
hundreds of local communities in the U.S., Canada,
the U.K., and the Philippines. In addition to tens of
millions of dollars of financial support, our associates
love to volunteer their time with nonprofit groups in
the communities where they work and live.
In 2018, we continued to help people build the skills
necessary to work and succeed in a digital economy
through our five-year, $150 million Future Edge
®
technology training program. We expanded our
Capital One Coders initiative, bringing technology
training to over 1,300 middle school students by
partnering with schools and community leaders
nationwide to help kids embrace software
engineering. We were once again named as one
of America’s most civic-minded companies with our
inclusion on The Civic 50, a prestigious list sponsored
by the Points of Light Foundation. We achieved
“Outstanding” ratings on exams related to the
Community Reinvestment Act, and we continued to
serve low- and moderate-income communities across
the United States. We are one of the nation’s largest
community development lenders. In 2018 alone, we
provided loans and investment capital to build over
10,000 new affordable housing units in the U.S.
We continued to engage with community advocates
and policymakers on a range of issues, including
emerging technologies, access to finance, privacy
and data sharing, and responsible innovation.
We have a strong track record of environmental
sustainability. For the second year in a row, we met
our goal for 100% renewable energy. We publicly
reiterated our commitment by joining the RE100,
Capital One’s philanthropic giving and community
engagement make our communities stronger and change
people’s lives. Our associates share their time and talent
with thousands of organizations, and our Future Edge
initiative prepares people for the digital jobs of tomorrow.
Building Strong
Communities
Our People Practices
Continue to Earn
Recognition
©2018 Time Inc. Used under license.
*