Dear fellow shareholders:
As investors in Cardinal Health, you put your trust in us to be
responsible stewards of your capital. I want to begin my first letter
as chief executive officer by sharing with you how we’re doing
and where we’re going.
Over the past several years, we set and achieved a
number of important strategic goals. Three of the most
significant were:
• We grew our specialty business from a $1 billion,
mostly blood products business, to a $15 billion
business offering diversified services to both
manufacturers and providers;
• We partnered with CVS Health to build a best-in-class,
large-scale generics program through a successful
50/50 joint venture; and
• We significantly expanded our medical products
portfolio through organic expansion and the
acquisitions of the Cordis and the Patient
Recovery businesses to complement our
medical distribution capabilities.
We are encouraged by the strategic progress we’ve
made and are committed to making further strides in
the coming year. We are moving aggressively to address
challenges that affect our markets and our business by
taking decisive action to drive growth, reduce costs,
and improve the profitability of our company. Work we
began in fiscal 2018, combined with a series of initiatives
we have begun implementing in fiscal 2019, are setting
us on the right track to deliver long-term growth and
enhance value for all of our stakeholders.
Fiscal 2018 performance
On a financial basis, for fiscal year 2018, revenue reached
$137 billion, up more than 5%. GAAP operating earnings
were $126 million compared to $2.1 billion last year and
non-GAAP operating earnings were $2.6 billion compared
to $2.8 billion last year. GAAP operating earnings included
a Medical segment non-cash goodwill impairment of
$1.4 billion primarily due to the performance of the
Cordis business. GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS)
attributable to Cardinal Health were $0.81 compared to
$4.03 last year and non-GAAP EPS were $5.00, down 7%
from last year. Net cash generated by operating activities
for fiscal 2018 was a solid $2.8 billion.
Pharmaceutical segment profit declined for the year
by 9%. On a positive note, the Nuclear and Specialty
Solutions businesses continued to grow, with Specialty
being a standout. Our challenge was in our core
Pharmaceutical Distribution business, where generic
programs and customer contract renewals were
headwinds. To address these challenges, our team is
actively evaluating multiple upstream and downstream
opportunities and we continue to assess our contracting
models in light of shifts in the environment.
The Medical segment’s profit increased 16% year
over year. Many of the Medical businesses, including
Cardinal Health at Home, the Global Services
division, and our recently acquired Patient Recovery
business, delivered strong performances. However,
Cardinal Health branded products, primarily Cordis,
encountered cost and inventory challenges.
As we exited the fiscal year, we reinforced our
commitment to a future of growth. To that end,
we are in the midst of a comprehensive, top-down,
bottom-up review of our business and have identified
six priority areas to drive long-term growth and
shareholder returns. These initiatives form our
roadmap for the next few years.
3
Fiscal 2019 priorities
We see exciting opportunities for Cardinal Health, as
well as significant work to be done to best position
the company in an evolving industry landscape to
deliver the greatest value for our investors, customers,
communities, and employees. Specifically, we are
focused on the following in fiscal 2019:
1.We are actively evaluating our portfolio and
business mix.
This is an ongoing effort that we intensified in
fiscal 2018 with a number of actions to simplify our
business and focus resources on the right growth
opportunities. We are taking a disciplined approach
to evaluating the best use of our capital to generate
long-term returns.
Following our analysis of the market in China, we
made the decision to exit our distribution business
there. It was clear that the returns we were seeing and
the prospects for market leadership did not justify
maintaining our current position or committing the
additional level of investment required for future
growth. Consequently, we completed the sale of this
business on February 1, 2018.
Using this same disciplined approach, we entered into
a partnership with Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, effective
August 1, 2018, to accelerate the growth of the
naviHealth business. Our team worked to structure
a partnership to unlock value and give naviHealth
even more resources to support its growth trajectory.
Cardinal Health retains approximately a 45% interest
in the business, which allows us to continue to benefit
from the growth we believe naviHealth can achieve.
2.We are evaluating upstream and downstream
elements of our pharmaceutical model.
Pharmaceutical Distribution continues to face industry
headwinds related to changing pricing dynamics. As
such, we are actively evaluating our cost structure,
accelerating growth initiatives, looking at customer
contracting models, and discussing evolving fee
structures with branded manufacturers. While we
expect the headwinds to persist in the coming year, we
have been through similar challenges before and are
taking action to return the Pharmaceutical Distribution
business to its more typical upward trajectory.
3.We are stabilizing the Cordis business and
positioning it for growth.
I have great confidence in the new management
team, who are taking critical steps to address Cordis’
business challenges. With improved data, we are
making substantial progress in addressing inventory
levels, demand planning, product portfolio, and
cost structure challenges. We are encouraged by the
progress of this business and continue to believe in its
significant long-term growth potential.
4.We are integrating the Patient Recovery business.
Following the completion of our acquisition of the
Patient Recovery business at the beginning of fiscal
2018, our team began working diligently to assure
a smooth and seamless integration of this business.
This integration is on schedule and in the coming
year we will continue to focus on successfully exiting
our Transition Service Agreements and delivering
product penetration in all key markets. We are
pleased that this business met our fiscal 2018 goal of
being accretive to non-GAAP EPS by more than $0.21.
In their commitment to integrating this business and
executing against their goals, this global team has
demonstrated grit, speed, and teamwork in action.
5.We are laser focused on our cost structure.
We are committed to approaching our cost structure
and operations diligently and responsibly. This
includes creating a culture in which every manager
is asking what we should do versus what we could
do, and what we should spend versus what we could
spend. Using various tools and analytics, we plan to
deliver more than $200 million in annualized savings
by fiscal 2020. Simply put, we are intensely focused on
each dollar we spend.
342622_CardinalHealth_CVR_NARR.indd 7 9/18/18 2:34 AM
Our Generation Rx program was created nearly
a decade ago in conjunction with The Ohio State
University School of Pharmacy to address medication
safety and prescription drug abuse prevention
education. Building on this strong foundation, in
fiscal 2018 we launched our Opioid Action Program,
which is focused on addressing the over-prescribing
of opioid pain medications by medical practitioners
and providing support to first responders dealing with
overdoses; assisting with drug take-back days around
the country; and increasing funding for community
efforts around education and advocacy. Along with
other leaders in healthcare, we are committed to
addressing the devastating consequences that the overprescribing of opioid medications and the addiction and
abuse of those medications and illegal street narcotics
have had on our families and communities.
A corporate culture that
drives success
I love our culture. For 28 years, I’ve been proud to work
alongside the people of Cardinal Health — employees
who are dedicated, hard-working, and focused on our
customers and the needs of their patients. We roll up
our sleeves to get the job done. We know how to pull
together in good times and bad. All of us take pride in
our role in healthcare. We know that to do our jobs well
we need a high-performing, accountable culture. We
also know that to be successful we have to recruit and
retain the best and most diverse team.
The idea that people of all genders, ethnicities, and
backgrounds can thrive and succeed so we can benefit
from their perspectives is very important to me personally.
This has been part of the Cardinal Health ethos for
years, and our Diversity & Inclusion Council continues to
prioritize this work and pursue actionable goals. I want all
employees to be able to bring their whole selves to work
every day. Inclusion is imperative to our success and our
ability to compete globally. I take it very seriously, and I
expect every employee to do the same.
Our culture is also shaped by our leaders and since
January it has been my honor to succeed George
Barrett, who passionately led the company as our
CEO for nine years. I want to thank George for his
6.We are taking a judicious, disciplined approach
to capital deployment.
We believe that taking a disciplined approach to capital
deployment includes reinvestments in the business
for future growth as well as returning cash to you, our
shareholders. In fiscal 2018 we paid out $580 million
in dividends and repurchased $550 million in shares.
Just recently, in the month of August, we entered into
an accelerated share repurchase program to acquire
shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase
price of $600 million. In addition, any M&A transactions
that we might consider in the near term would be
limited and focused. Overall, our approach will be
judicious and thoughtful.
In summary, we are prioritizing what is important,
devoting resources to what will drive our business
forward while minimizing distractions. Our approach to
costs and spending is disciplined and growth-oriented.
And importantly, we are focused on flawless execution.
I am proud of what our team is achieving and the goals
in place for the year ahead.
A leader in healthcare and
in our communities
Cardinal Health plays a critical role in the delivery of
healthcare, and our customers rely on us for high quality
products and efficient operations. Through our services
and products, we serve nearly 85% of hospitals, more
than 26,000 pharmacies, and more than 10,000 specialty
physician offices and clinics across the U.S. In fiscal 2018,
our nearly 50,000 global employees operated in more
than 46 countries.
As a healthcare leader, we feel a deep responsibility to
be a positive force for good in our communities, and we
want to do even more to improve the health and wellbeing of our neighbors where we live and work. For
many years, our community relations efforts have been
meaningful and wide-ranging. These include a best-inclass program promoting patient safety in dozens of
hospitals; grants to organizations that promote research
and wellness programs to combat global diseases; and
emotional, physical, and financial support for veterans
and their families.
3
342622_CardinalHealth_CVR_NARR.indd 8 9/18/18 2:34 AM
Our Generation Rx program was created nearly
a decade ago in conjunction with The Ohio State
University School of Pharmacy to address medication
safety and prescription drug abuse prevention
education. Building on this strong foundation, in
fiscal 2018 we launched our Opioid Action Program,
which is focused on addressing the over-prescribing
of opioid pain medications by medical practitioners
and providing support to first responders dealing with
overdoses; assisting with drug take-back days around
the country; and increasing funding for community
efforts around education and advocacy. Along with
other leaders in healthcare, we are committed to
addressing the devastating consequences that the overprescribing of opioid medications and the addiction and
abuse of those medications and illegal street narcotics
have had on our families and communities.
A corporate culture that
drives success
I love our culture. For 28 years, I’ve been proud to work
alongside the people of Cardinal Health — employees
who are dedicated, hard-working, and focused on our
customers and the needs of their patients. We roll up
our sleeves to get the job done. We know how to pull
together in good times and bad. All of us take pride in
our role in healthcare. We know that to do our jobs well
we need a high-performing, accountable culture. We
also know that to be successful we have to recruit and
retain the best and most diverse team.
The idea that people of all genders, ethnicities, and
backgrounds can thrive and succeed so we can benefit
from their perspectives is very important to me personally.
This has been part of the Cardinal Health ethos for
years, and our Diversity & Inclusion Council continues to
prioritize this work and pursue actionable goals. I want all
employees to be able to bring their whole selves to work
every day. Inclusion is imperative to our success and our
ability to compete globally. I take it very seriously, and I
expect every employee to do the same.
Our culture is also shaped by our leaders and since
January it has been my honor to succeed George
Barrett, who passionately led the company as our
CEO for nine years. I want to thank George for his
unwavering dedication to Cardinal Health, to our
mission, and to our people. On a personal note, I
appreciate his support and guidance.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank three of
our esteemed directors, Dave Anderson, Clay Jones and
Dave King, who will be leaving our board of directors.
They each have been valuable members of the board
and their contributions will be missed. We have an active
search underway for new directors to complement the
expertise and experience of our existing board members.
As we enter a new fiscal year, we are squarely focused
on driving the greatest value from an attractive portfolio
of assets. Everything is on the table when it comes to
delivering long-term growth, enhancing shareholder
returns, and serving our customers and their patients. At
every level of Cardinal Health, we are committed to being
disciplined in our approach and to achieving substantial
results in the months and years ahead.
We appreciate your investment in Cardinal Health, and
you have my commitment that we will work hard every
day to earn the trust you have placed in us.
Sincerely,
4
I want all employees to be
able to bring their whole
selves to work every day.
Inclusion is imperative to our
success and our ability to
compete globally.”
Mike Kaufmann
CEO, Cardinal Health, Inc.
September 2018