In 2018, Centene achieved strong results across our business segments, reflecting the strength of
our diversification strategy and our portfolio approach. Centene’s ability to execute across our
strategic and operational initiatives propelled us to #61 on the Fortune 500® list of America’s
largest companies by revenue, and #1 on Fortune’s 100 Fastest-Growing Companies list based on
revenue growth over a 10-year period. We continued to diversify and add to our capabilities, driving
significant revenue and earnings growth and creating greater opportunities for margin expansion.
We ended 2018 as a $60 billion enterprise, and our success this past year was punctuated by the
two-for-one stock split announced at the end of 2018, effective in the first quarter of 2019.
At Centene, we don’t just embrace the future, we take the lead. We are a company in motion, and
we are taking action to build on our competitive strengths to drive further growth. We continued to
see our strategic approach yield results in 2018. Centene offers approximately 350 solutions
in 32 states, covering more than 14 million members in the U.S. and approximately 600,000
individuals internationally. Our size and scale afford us the necessary resources for further
investments in systems, markets, products, and capabilities that are improving our competitive
position in both the short and long term.
By combining our strong organic growth and strategic acquisitions, we have become a
transformational leader in the government-sponsored healthcare sector. Notably, we completed
Centene is a growth company with expectations of continued margin
expansion and strong growth in the top and bottom line.
All percentages as of Dec. 31, 2018
24%
Growth in Total
Revenues*
40%
Growth in Adjusted
Diluted Earnings
per Share*
14%
Total Shareholder
Return*
31%
Industry-Leading Five-Year
Compounded Total Shareholder
Return Annual Growth Rate
* Year Over Year
the acquisition of Fidelis Care, the leading government health plan in New York, establishing
Centene as a leader in the nation’s four largest Medicaid states. Fidelis has maintained its strong
operating performance throughout our successful integration, while the acquisition has expanded
our reach in Medicare Advantage and the Health Insurance Marketplace. Looking forward, it is
clear that we have an incredibly bright future. We have clear sight on new opportunities. We’re
expanding our U.S. footprint and we are growing internationally. This positions us to continue
delivering results for our members, communities, and shareholders.
DRIVING GROWTH
Centene drove organic growth in our core products of Medicaid, Medicare, and the Health
Insurance Marketplace in 2018. We were successful in reprocurement and service expansion wins
in multiple markets, and in 2019 we are expanding our Medicaid geographical footprint with new
contracts in Iowa and New Mexico. In addition, we grew our portfolio of Medicare products, offering
Medicare Advantage and D-SNP plans in eight new Centene Medicaid states, which will help bring
our Medicare product solutions to a total of 20 states. And we are the number one insurer in the
nation on the Health Insurance Marketplace. In 2018, we had strong marketplace enrollment of
over 1.6 million members at the peak, representing 35% growth over 2017 open enrollment metrics.
We now offer access to the Health Insurance Marketplace in 70% of our markets, having already
expanded into four new states for 2019 and exploring additional expansion activities for 2020.
Beyond these core offerings, we remain the largest provider of managed long-term services
and supports, one of the fastest-growing segments in the managed care market. Our Centurion
product is the market leader in correctional health by revenue and is widely recognized for its high
standards for quality and care and its innovative and transparent approach. In addition, through
our TRICARE program, we continued to be one of the nation’s largest providers of managed care
services for military families.
We also continue to gather international momentum by leveraging our public sector and
population health expertise, as well as our technology and analytics capabilities, to advance our
position in the Spanish and UK markets. At the end of 2018, Centene acquired an 89% ownership
in University Hospital of Torrejón, serving approximately 150,000 people with a broad portfolio of
services and facilities. This investment furthers the reach of our successful whole health model. 
4 Letter from the Chairman CENTENE CORPORATION 5
BUILDING ON OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
Our core beliefs have stood the test of time, and today, as we build on those foundations through
new technologies and innovations, we are able to take bold steps forward while remaining true
to our purpose of transforming the health of the community, one person at a time.
For example, we are proactively streamlining our organization to achieve efficiencies, protect
quality and outcomes, and capture the best of our capabilities and talents. In 2018, we launched
Centene Forward, an initiative designed to generate operating and economic efficiencies and
accelerate margin expansion. Through Centene Forward, we expect to realize up to $500 million
in savings over a multiyear period. In addition to long-term savings, this initiative will provide us
with additional capital to invest in capabilities and technologies that better position Centene
for long-term growth, increased margins, and enhanced profitability.
We continue to invest in technology, which enhances our ability to scale, coordinate, and
deliver care. With our focus on innovation, we deliver the next generation of healthcare services
through new IT platforms, enhanced data analytics, and technology-based partnerships. In 2018,
we introduced RxAdvance, a solution for pharmacy benefit management (PBM), and have been
pleased with its early performance. We will continue this implementation across our health
plans throughout 2019 and 2020, and will consistently leverage new technology to improve
health outcomes.
We are also driving integrated innovation through our organization. Through our Health Care
Enterprises group, highlighted by Casenet’s TruCare solutions, we are improving health
outcomes by developing more efficient care models and reducing healthcare costs. We also
made a significant investment in Interpreta, an innovative health IT company focused on clinical
and genomic data and analytics. Interpreta can rapidly identify physiological or laboratory
changes by analyzing 12 million medical data points in less than a minute, which allows for
continuous interpretation of each patient’s past, present, and future care needs.
Our ongoing initiatives build on more than 30 years of experience in applying our local approach
to government-sponsored healthcare programs. Centene goes beyond traditional healthcare,
partnering with states and other key stakeholders to offer programs and services that address
the health and social needs of our country’s most vulnerable populations. This commitment
is a core piece of Centene’s business strategy.
LEADING THE WAY FORWARD
The healthcare industry is ever-changing as the nation debates the shape and scope of healthcare
policy. That said, the midterm elections of 2018 demonstrated that there is bipartisan support to
provide high-quality, efficient, and affordable care to all Americans. This goal has been Centene’s
focus and commitment for more than 30 years. We will continue focusing on what we can control.
As an exceptionally local, fully integrated, tech-enabled enterprise, we deliver consistent
year-over-year market expansion by strategically optimizing our core business.
Ultimately, Centene’s success is due to the talent, skill, and dedication of our more than 47,000
employees, as well as their commitment to providing the highest quality of care to the vulnerable
populations entrusted to us. From the leaders we develop through our leadership training programs
at Centene University to the individual employees running local programs to promote healthier lives
for our members, it is our workforce that facilitates our growth. I want to thank our employees for
their commitment, passion, and innovation, which enable Centene to deliver on our mission to
provide better health outcomes at lower costs. I also want to use this opportunity to note my
appreciation for the guidance and leadership of our Board of Directors.
We have a clear line of sight into our growth drivers for 2019 and beyond. We will keep building
on our momentum to deliver enhanced value to shareholders as we transform the health of our
communities, one person at a time.
MICHAEL F. NEIDORFF
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer