In the nearly 90 years of our cooperative’s history, we
have seen many ups and downs. The cyclical nature
of our agricultural and energy businesses has trained
us to prepare for good times and difficult times. And
we have become incredibly skilled at managing those
highs and lows in every part of the supply chain, from
the farm field to the consumer’s table.
But we wouldn’t be able to succeed or even survive
those cycles without focus — focus on the big picture
and on our long-term goal: serving those who produce
food for the world.
Fiscal 2018 was a challenging year on many levels,
but we remained focused on our priorities. That
single-minded focus helped us complete the year
with significant results in many of our energy, grains
and foods businesses. We’re proud of what we were
able to accomplish as a system and as a company,
despite demanding market conditions.
One year ago, we described our fiscal 2018 priorities,
which were to strengthen relationships with owners
and employees, sharpen our operational excellence,
and restore financial flexibility. Through the hard work
of leaders and employees of CHS, our goals within
those priorities have been met and exceeded. And they
have laid the foundation for our 2019 priorities:
• Enhance the owner experience through deeper
relationships, seamless interactions with CHS at
every level and more effective technology solutions
• Equip our employees by enhancing their expertise,
preparing them to serve CHS owners amid change
and encouraging new perspectives
• Drive enterprise business growth by focusing on our
core businesses, continuing to improve efficiency
and increasing market share
The bottom line is a focus on our owners’ needs and
on doing what we do well — but doing it even better.
There is no shortage of companies striving to provide
inputs and marketing services for American farmers.
And as razor-thin margins continue to put pressure on
farm income and force increasingly difficult decisions
on farms and at local cooperatives, we know we will
need to earn our owners’ business every day.
From left, Debertin and Schurr
We take that task seriously. We understand it will
require better access to data, stronger connections
between businesses, more effective understanding
of owner needs and a streamlined approach to doing
business with our complex system.
And becoming the first choice for our owners and
customers in every core business will require continuing
to build deep relationships that benefit everyone. That
focus on collaboration and mutually beneficial results is
what cooperatives do best. Our success depends on the
success of our owners.
We are committed to delivering value to our owners —
local cooperatives and producers — at every step. That
value will come through providing creative solutions
and local expertise, making global connections, and
identifying practical approaches that give owners the
advantages they need to reach their goals. We are
focused on their success.
Dan Schurr
Chairman, Board of Directors
Jay Debertin
President and Chief Executive Officer