Cigna extended our decade-long track record of
delivering exceptional results for our customers,
patients, clients, partners and shareholders in
2018, with consistently strong performance
across our portfolio of businesses.
Through our combination with Express Scripts,
we further strengthened our foundation
for delivering connected, personalized and
affordable health services – accelerating our
ability to coordinate care around individual
customer and patient needs, address the whole
person health needs of those we serve, and
contribute to a more sustainable health care
system. This presents significant opportunity,
and gives Cigna great momentum for 2019
and beyond.
Our exceptional 2018 financial performance is
detailed in the 10-K section of our annual report.
Among the highlights, Cigna achieved:
> Strong revenue and earnings1
 growth –
with adjusted revenue growth1
 of 15%,
to $48 billion;
> Earnings1
 growth of 33%, to $3.6 billion
after tax;
> Earnings per share1
 growth of 36%,
to $14.22, and;
> Continued strong operating cash flow.2
A number of factors drove Cigna’s outstanding
2018 results, including the ongoing effectiveness
of our “Go” strategy of Go Deeper, Go Local,
Go Beyond; and the industry-leading medical
cost trend we’ve now delivered for six
consecutive years.3
ADJUSTED
REVENUE1
$
48B
EARNINGS1
$
3.6B
EARNINGS
PER SHARE1
GROWTH
36%
A message from our President and CEO,
David Cordani
COLLEAGUES AROUND
THE WORLD DELIVERING
EXCEPTIONAL RESULTS
74,000
2
Express Scripts also delivered strong
performance in 2018, concluding the year
with greater than 98%4 client retention, and
its lowest-ever commercial pharmacy trend
of 0.4%.5 These successes were driven by
Express Scripts’ clinically based solutions,
which help ensure appropriate use, better
outcomes and greater affordability.
The greatest contributors to Cigna’s and Express
Scripts’ results were – and continue to be – our
combined company’s now 74,000 colleagues
around the world, who are dedicated to living
our mission and creating exceptional value each
and every day. I am proud of their continued
focus and passion.
Cigna is well positioned to deliver attractive
and sustainable growth in 2019 – as well as 15%
average annual Earnings Per Share (EPS)6 growth
over the next three years, on route to achieving
our longer-term EPS target of $20 to $21 in 2021.
T H E P OW E R O F P R I VAT E , M A R K E TD R I V E N H E A LT H C A R E S O L U T I O N S
I N D R I V I N G S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A N D
I N N OVAT I O N
Cigna’s integrated suite of health services, and
160 million customer and patient relationships in
more than 30 countries and jurisdictions, gives
us unique visibility into what works in health care
systems – in the United States as well as around
the globe.
In the United States, it remains clear that our
nation’s health care is on an unsustainable path.
The health of many people across the globe
continues to decline, causing us to consume
more health care goods and services which,
more often than not, reimburse health care
providers for the quantity of services they
deliver, rather than for the health outcomes of
the people in their care. Our spending continues
to rise at a level well above other industries.
On top of this, keeping people healthy is
undervalued; too often, consumers aren’t
incentivized enough to stay or get healthy.
Further, significant gaps exist in how care is
accessed, making this even harder for many
of our underserved populations.
Some argue this offers evidence that the United
States health care system “doesn’t work,” and
would be better served by a greater reliance on
government-run health care, analogous to what
we see in some other countries.
As a global health service company, however,
we see that many countries relying heavily
on government-run health care face similar
health and affordability challenges. For
example, obesity rates more than doubled
over the past 40 years in France, Turkey and
the United Kingdom.7 South Korea’s per capita
national health expenditure grew nearly 300%
between 2001 and 2015.8 In these and many
other countries, people increasingly turn to
Cigna’s supplemental benefits to aug
3
Building a sustainable future
4. Cigna Earnings Call, February 1, 2019.
5. Express Scripts, 2018 Drug Trend Report, February 2019.
6. Cigna Press Release, Cigna delivers strong 2018 results as it completes Express Scripts transaction; company positioned for significant growth, February 1, 2019.
7. World Health Organization, Prevalence of obesity among adults, September 22, 2017.
8. Shou-Hsia Cheng PhD, Hyun-Hyo Jin MS, Bong-Min Yang PhD, Robert H. Blank PhD, Value in Regional Health Issues, Health Expenditure Growth under Single-Payer Systems: Comparing South Korea and Taiwan, May 2018. 
4
Driving engagement
5
Based on our insight into health care systems
worldwide, Cigna strongly believes the best way
to generate further health care improvements
in the United States is through even greater
reliance on private, market-driven solutions.
This is because we see the power and positive
impact that private, market-driven solutions
already have on improving health and affordability,
and in filling gaps in the health care system – both
on their own and working in concert with public,
government solutions. The employer market
offers a strong example of this.
At Cigna, we seek to leverage and fuel the best
of the private system’s innovation in partnership
with responsible and innovative public program
development.
Cigna believes that a stronger reliance on marketdriven solutions is essential to building a truly
sustainable health care system. These solutions
are responsible for many of the bright spots we
see in health care today.
Approximately two-thirds of all Americans,
nearly 200 million people, access health
coverage through employers, either as a
benefit of their employment, or a parent’s
or spouse’s employment.9
A healthy and productive employer market is
critical to the United States’ ability to compete
locally and globally, and, as such, employers
are acutely aware of health care’s impact on
their employees’ productivity and success. By
encouraging greater personalization and bringing
together capabilities to drive affordability,
employer engagement in the health of their
employees is beneficial to the United States
system at large.
Employers are uniquely qualified to create
localized programs focused on engaging
employees to take an active role in their health.
In 2015, 21% of those in employer-based coverage
had incomes that would have qualified them
for cost-sharing subsidies on the exchanges
or Medicaid, and 43% would have qualified for
premium subsidies or Medicaid.10 The cost shift
from Medicare and Medicaid to private payers
represents a financing dynamic on which the
United States delivery system largely relies to
provide needed care, and even to extend the
financial viability of government programs.
Integrated and incentive-based programs
are driving increased innovation, consumer
engagement and improved health outcomes.
Innovations driving the delivery system shift
from volume to value – or, put differently,
toward incentivizing health outcomes rather
than the quantity of services provided – began
in employer-provided coverage arrangements.
Every new year, more and more employers are
focused on giving their employees access to
high-quality health care providers; consistent
access to acute, chronic and preventive care;
health-engagement and coaching programs;
and incentives to encourage individuals to seek
the highest value in the
6
Cigna has been a leader in creating Accountable
Care Organization (ACO) programs for more than
10 years. These programs seek to provide better
overall health, affordability and experience for
communities. Cigna has more than 600 of these
arrangements,11 which incentivize providers to
deliver care based on patient health outcomes,
not the volume of care they provide or number
of tests they run. Recently, we announced that
we exceeded our value-based care goal of having
50% of our Medicare and commercial health care
provider payments through alternative payment
arrangements in Cigna’s top 40 markets by yearend 2018 – resulting in $600 million in medical
cost savings between 2013 and 2017.12
These efforts to align incentives are improving
quality and provider satisfaction, too. Cigna’s topperforming accountable care program health care
providers demonstrated a quality performance of
11% better than the market,13 with 92% of providers
either meeting or exceeding quality benchmarks.14
According to a survey15 of Cigna commercial
accountable care program providers:
> 92% say the insights and guidance
Cigna provides help them improve
performance and outcomes.
> 95% say their relationship with
Cigna is collaborative and consultative
rather than transactional.
> 95% say it is easy to do business
with Cigna.
IN MEDICAL COST
SAVINGS FROM 2013–2017
EXCEEDED OUR
VALUE-BASED GOAL
RESULTING IN
$
600M
11. Cigna internal analysis of existing arrangements as of December 2018.
12. Cigna January 2019 analysis of national Accountable Care program groups with effective dates
from 2013 through 2017. Reimbursements already paid to groups are subtracted from the savings
to reflect overall investment.
13. Cigna June 2018 analysis (weighted average) of top five national Accountable Care program
groups per metric compared with local market in 2017. Accounts for 23,405 aligned customers.
Comparisons with market are established using Cigna internal claims data.
14. Cigna June 2018 analysis of 2017 data of Accountable Care program groups nationally, active at
least one year.
15. Cigna Accountable Care Organization (ACO) Experience Survey, September 2017.
7
Improving health
8
85%
CIGNA MEDICARE
ADVANTAGE CUSTOMERS
WHO ARE IN VALUE-BASED
CARE ARRANGEMENTS16
95%
PROVIDERS WHO SAY THEIR
RELATIONSHIP WITH CIGNA
IS COLLABORATIVE AND
CONSULTATIVE RATHER THAN
TRANSACTIONAL
92%
PROVIDERS WHO SAY
THE INSIGHTS AND GUIDANCE
CIGNA PROVIDES HELPS IMPROVE
PERFORMANCE AND OUTCOMES
16. Cigna internal market trend report as of December 2018.
Breakthrough innovations
9
Medicare Advantage programs are driving
superior outcomes compared with traditional
Medicare programs.
Medicare Advantage is a public-private
partnership offering Medicare-eligible Americans
personalized, comprehensive and affordable
coverage. Today, Medicare Advantage health
plans cost taxpayers the same as traditional
Medicare, all while offering more benefits, such
as vision, dental and fitness plans, as well as
transportation services.
The advantages of Medicare Advantage
plans relative to traditional Medicare plans
are numerous.
> A study funded by the National Institute
on Aging found that Medicare Advantage
enrollees are less likely to require post-acute
care following a hospital stay, and are less
likely to be readmitted to a hospital than
beneficiaries in traditional Medicare.17
> Research shows that individuals with diabetes
enrolled in Medicare Advantage Chronic
Condition Special Needs Plans experienced
19% fewer hospital days per enrollee than
those in traditional Medicare plans.18
> A recent survey from the Better Medicare
Alliance found that 58% of seniors switching
from traditional Medicare to a Medicare
Advantage plan say their Medicare Advantage
plan is preferable, compared with only 2%
who favored their traditional Medicare plan.19
The private sector is faster and more effective
than government-run programs at innovating,
helping improve outcomes and increasing
affordability.
Consider Medicare Part D, which provides a
prescription drug benefit to Medicare enrollees,
with the Part D benefit administered by
commercial drug plans and Medicare Advantage
drug plans. The government didn’t launch it
until 2006 – 40 years after the introduction
of Medicare.
The vigorous negotiation which takes place
between pharmacy service organizations and
pharmacies, as well as with manufacturers,
has been confirmed by external researchers to
improve a variety of health outcomes while also
generating $6 in savings for each $1 spent on
their services.20
Further, pharmacy service organizations are
expected to help prevent an estimated one
billion medication errors over the next decade.21
They will also improve drug therapy and patient
adherence among diabetes patients – preventing
approximately 480,000 heart failures, 230,000
incidences of kidney disease, 180,000 strokes
and 8,000 amputations annually; and, help
reduce costs by 40%–50% for patients and
payers compared with what they would have
otherwise spent.22
While many rightfully point to drug pricing as
a challenge to health care affordability and
outcomes, the overprescribing of drugs is
equally concerning. Prescription drugs are too
often the preferred first line of treatment for
many illnesses. As we have see
1 0
Strengthening connections
360
°
1 1
With the addition of Express Scripts’ pharmacy
services, Cigna now provides an even more
comprehensive view of health care, able to
“connect the dots” across a customer’s health
journey. Our data-driven insights, combined with
our clinical expertise, enable us to create uniquely
tailored interventions that more frequently
deliver the right amount of medicine to the right
customer at the right time. Our solutions address
both components of trend (utilization and cost),
and enable us to deliver health outcomes that
others cannot.
T H E C I G N A D I F F E R E N C E :
A F O C U S O N S E R V I C E I N T E G R AT I O N
A N D W H O L E P E R S O N H E A LT H
Cigna’s ongoing growth reflects our proven
approach to service integration and to delivering
real value for the benefit of our customers,
patients, clients and health care provider partners.
Cigna’s recent, externally validated report on
the value of integration shows that clients with
Cigna medical, pharmacy and behavioral benefits
reduce annual medical costs by an average of
$645 for each person with an identified health
improvement opportunity – savings that can
increase to nearly $10,000 for individuals with
certain chronic conditions.23
Our unique approach to integration focuses on
the coordination of services around the individual
and their whole person health needs – both body
and mind. This approach also further expands
choice, so our customers and patients have
access to the health care they need, anytime,
anywhere, based on their needs and preferences.
CIGNA CLIENTS WITH INTEGRATED BENEFITS
CAN REDUCE ANNUAL MEDICAL COSTS BY UP
TO NEARLY $10,000 FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH
CERTAIN CHRONIC CONDITIONS
$
10,000
Cigna’s new advertising initiative uses the power
of influencers to spotlight the importance of
mental health as a key factor in overall health.
The campaign brings together Queen Latifah,
Nick Jonas and Ted Danson to encourage everyone
to schedule their annual check-up and talk openly
and honestly with their health care providers about
how they are feeling, physically and emotionally.
23. Cigna 2018 National Book of Business study of medical customers who have Cigna pharmacy and behavioral benefits vs. those with Cigna basic behavioral. Average annual per member per year (PMPY) –
individual client/customer results will vary and are not guaranteed.
1 2
In an environment where some are restricting
access in order to narrowly drive affordability,
Cigna sees an opportunity to further expand
customer choice, and to make it easier for people
to access the health services they need, whether
in a doctor’s office, an urgent care center, a
retail setting or employer clinic; or, for more
acute needs, at a hospital or outpatient service
center. In addition to these venues, customers
increasingly choose to secure the health care
services they need at home or through digital
platforms. At Cigna, we see this level of choice
as a tremendous opportunity.
Viewed from a pharmacy perspective, Cigna
is focused on improving health outcomes and
reducing total costs by harnessing the breadth
and depth of our data to better predict and
identify conditions or behaviors, and to improve
connectivity among our customers, patients and
health care providers.
For example, we now have more than 50,000
patients with WiFi-enabled blood glucose
monitors that are sharing data related to their
blood sugars with their pharmacists every day.
When one of our dedicated pharmacists detects
an out-of-range blood sugar level, they reach out
to the patient immediately with an intervention
tailored to that patient’s needs. Over time, we’ve
seen meaningfully improved outcomes, including
a 4% increase in adherence to oral medication, a
23% drop in hyperglycemic episodes, a 42% drop
in extreme hyperglycemic episodes, and a 36%
drop in extreme hypoglycemic episodes.24
IMPROVING DIABETES OUTCOMES
THROUGH DATA-DRIVEN INTERVENTION
DROP IN
EXTREME
HYPOGLYCEMIC
EPISODES
36%
DROP IN
HYPERGLYCEMIC
EPISODES
23%
INCREASE IN
ADHERENCE
TO ORAL
MEDICATION
4%
DROP IN
EXTREME
HYPERGLYCEMIC
EPISODES
42%
24. Express Scripts, Internal Diabetes Remote Monitoring Pilot Report, September 25, 2017.
1 3
A C O M M I T M E N T T O C O M M U N I T Y
For all of the private sector driven bright spots
discussed, Cigna believes it’s equally important
for organizations to actively prioritize community
engagement to enable communities to fill health
gaps that the health care system alone cannot.
This was a major driving factor behind Cigna’s
2018 commitment to make an incremental
investment of $200 million in the Cigna
Foundation and our communities. As part of this
investment, the Cigna Foundation committed
$25 million for a new, five-year community
engagement initiative focused on the well-being
of children around the world, with the first year
committed to addressing food insecurities
through a program called Healthier Kids for
Our Future.25
In the United States, Cigna was the first in
our industry to address the opioid epidemic –
partnering with physicians, dentists and
community leaders to change overprescribing
patterns, and helping to reduce prescribed
opioids to Cigna customers by 25% in less than
two years. Cigna recently expanded our goal
to reduce opioid overdoses by 25% among
our customers in targeted communities by
the end of 2021.26
Cigna views our role in driving change through
community leadership as a critical one, and we
are excited to keep you updated on a variety of
new initiatives in 2019.
Cigna created an opioid pain plan campaign,
responding to the issue that one in five people
are at increased risk of long-term opioid use –
and addiction – with only a 10-day prescription.
Cigna’s 1 in 5 Campaign included athletes, chefs
and other social media influencers to help
educate providers and consumers before an
opioid prescription is written, and guide providers
to offer resources on pain and suggest ways to
manage pain safely.
REDUCTION IN
OPIOID OVERDOSES IN
TARGETED COMMUNITIES
BY THE END OF 2021
OUR GOAL:
25%
25. Cigna Press Release, Cigna employees kick off $25 million Healthier Kids for Our Future initiative by combatting childhood hunger globally, January 15, 2019.
26. Cigna Press Release, Cigna intensifies effort to curtail opioid epidemic by confronting opioid addiction and overdoses in U.S. communities, June 21, 2018. 
1 4
Consistent with its commitment to promote wellness and help build healthier
communities, Cigna continued its Health Improvement Tour, which, in 2018,
attended 237 events in 139 cities across the country, providing more than
14,000 free health screenings for cholesterol, blood sugar, blood pressure and
body mass index. Since the launch of the 2016 pilot, the Health Improvement
Tour has delivered almost 26,000 free health screenings as of year-end 2018,
with another 225+ events planned in 2019.
INCREMENTAL
INVESTMENT IN OUR
FOUNDATION AND
COMMUNITIES
$
200M
FREE HEALTH SCREENINGS
SINCE 2016
26,000
1 5
David M. Cordani
President and Chief Executive Officer
Cigna Corporation
Overall for 2019, we expect revenue growth,
attractive EPS growth, and strong free cash
flows – all positioning us to deliver 15% average
annual EPS growth27 over the next three years,
and enabling us to achieve our $20 to $21 EPS
target in 2021.
I thank you for your continued investment in
Cigna. We are committed to our broadened
approach to integrated health through our
combination with Express Scripts, with a focus
on the coordination of services around the
individual and their whole person health needs –
both body and mind.
Our 74,000 colleagues around the world are
driven by our mission of improving the health,
well-being and peace of mind of those we serve.
We are excited about the future.
A L O O K AT 2 0 1 9 – A N D B E YO N D
Looking ahead, Cigna will remain laser-focused
on creating market-driven health care solutions
designed to improve health and affordability,
and fill gaps in the health care system around
the globe.
One of the essential steps for Cigna to continue
unlocking additional value for our stakeholders
is the effective integration and leveraging of
Express Scripts’ capabilities.
Our immediate priority relative to this combination
is to ensure we deliver on our commitments to
customers, patients and clients in 2019 and are
positioned to do so in 2020.
As we move through 2019 and beyond, we will
have three key areas of focus.
First, to optimize the significant medical and
pharmacy cost synergy opportunities, which
will directly benefit our customers, patients and
clients, and help improve affordability. Second, to
harness the breadth and depth of our combined
data to better predict and identify conditions or
behaviors, and improve connectivity between our
customers, patients and health care providers.
And, third, to leverage new growth opportunities
and expanded reach across our businesses as
we enter new geographies and broaden our
solutions portfolio. 