To our shareholders,
Fiscal 2018 was a great year for Cisco.
As I look back, I am incredibly proud of
the tremendous progress we have made.
We returned to growth while transforming
our business model, we executed well
against our strategy, and our innovation
pipeline has never been stronger. I could
not be more excited about our future.
Harnessing the power of connections
In today’s complex, hyperconnected cloud
world, agility, security, and speed are
critical. To thrive, companies must be able
to understand and securely harness the
power of their connections, find patterns
and intelligence in data, and anticipate
and respond to shifting market conditions
and stakeholders’ needs. Our strategy
is aligned with the changing needs of
our customers. With our commitment
to providing a highly secure, intelligent
platform for digital business, Cisco is
firmly focused on being the most strategic
partner for our customers and helping
them succeed in today’s world.
The broad adoption of multicloud
environments is changing the way our
customers build and secure their IT
infrastructure, and Cisco is at the center of
this transition. Our highly secure, intelligent
platform provides a critically important
component: the ability to move workloads
seamlessly across public and private clouds
while ensuring that our customers’ security
policies are applied effectively. In fiscal
2018, we continued to innovate to manage
complexity, deliver solutions, and enable
applications for this environment. We
have also extended our broad partnership
ecosystem and have been working
closely with the major cloud providers.
We are simplifying how our customers
work by providing consistent experiences
in on-premises and public-cloud
environments for the development,
deployment, and management of
applications, and we believe Cisco is
very well positioned to benefit from the
increasing adoption of multicloud.
This past year we have also seen incredible
momentum with our intent-based
networking platform. Our customers are
looking to have simplified, automated
networks, and Cisco is delivering
a fundamentally new, closed-loop
system that is powered by intent and
informed by context, constantly learning
and adapting. The 2014 launch of
our Application Centric Infrastructure
(Cisco ACI)—policy-based automation for
the data center—was our first step. We
then brought intent-based networking to
the access network with the launch of the
Cisco Catalyst 9000 series of switches,
Software-Defined Access (SD-Access),
and DNA Center—a centralized management
dashboard. Our Catalyst 9000 series of
switches has become the fastest ramping
product in Cisco’s history—testament,
we believe, to its ability to future-proof
networks; to integrate automation, security
and analytics; and to free up operating
expenses and resources for our customers.
We have now extended SD-Access
and DNA Center to the Internet of
Things (IoT) environment, as well as
extended Cisco ACI to the public cloud
with Cisco ACI Anywhere. We have
closed the loop with the addition of
network assurance capabilities, providing
continuous verification of the network’s
intent, and offering insights and visibility
into network policy and actions. We intend
to extend open, programmable access
across the entire network as we build
an ecosystem around our intent-based
networking portfolio.
Inevitably, as connections multiply, the
threat landscape continues to grow
and the concept of a security perimeter
disappears. Security is fundamental across
our portfolio and is foundational to all we
do at Cisco. Our strategy is to simplify
and increase security efficacy through an
architectural approach, with products that
work together and share analytics and
actionable threat intelligence. We have
been working hard to build an end-to-end
security architecture from the endpoint
to the network to the cloud, covering the
entire attack continuum.
Shortly after the end of fiscal 2018,
we announced our intention to acquire
Duo Security to expand our cloud
security capabilities. Duo’s multifactor
authentication solution verifies the
identity of users and the health of their
devices before granting them access to
applications, helping prevent cybersecurity
breaches. Duo’s relevance within the
context of our intent-based networking
strategy spans the entire extended
enterprise. Its portfolio of cloud-delivered
solutions will help enable what our
customers require in today’s multicloud
world: the ability to securely connect any
user on any device to any application on
any network.
Key Milestones
1.87 million students in 180 countries
participating in Cisco’s Networking
Academy in fiscal 2018
Partnership with Global
Citizen, whose mission is to
eradicate poverty by 2030
300+ projects completed or under way as part of Cisco’s
Country Digital Acceleration (CDA) program, encompassing
economic development, entrepreneurship and innovation,
research and education, and national infrastructures
500,000+ registered
users in DevNet, Cisco’s
developer program
440 million people
positively impacted by our
cash grant investments
$383 million Cisco and
Cisco Foundation cash
and in-kind contributions
in fiscal 2018
Five-year, $50 million commitment
to “Destination: Home,” a nonprofit
organization, to help end
homelessness in Silicon Valley
2 Cisco 2018 Annual Report
With intent-based networking, we have
not only changed the building blocks for
networks but have created a platform
for innovation across our entire portfolio.
In fiscal 2018, we introduced new
wide-area network (WAN) offerings
through the integration of Viptela’s
SD-WAN capabilities with our core
portfolio, as well as new access and data
center offerings. With the integration of
AppDynamics, we continued to develop
our analytics capabilities, bringing
end-to-end visibility and analytics from the
end user to the network to the application.
We also introduced new developer
capabilities spanning all network domains
through our DevNet program.
We are dedicated to creating better
experiences for our customers and
employees, and one way we do this is
through our collaboration portfolio. In
fiscal 2018, we created a new integrated
meetings experience with Cisco Webex
and added cloud calling and contact
center solutions through the acquisition
of Broadsoft and integration with Google.
With the acquisition of Accompany, we are
adding more intelligence and contextual
information to meeting and team
collaboration experiences.
Cultivating success
Our relationships with our customers are
changing from transactional to lifecycle, so
we have created a Customer Experience
organization to help ensure their success
at every stage of their digitization journey.
Our commitment to our customers’
success also drives our belief that it is
essential to have a diversity of experiences
and perspectives on our leadership team
to yield the best results.
We are committed not only to our
customers but also to making a difference
in the world and solving some of the
world’s greatest challenges. Two years
ago we set a goal to positively impact
one billion people by 2025, and every
day we come a step closer through our
focus on educating the workforce of the
future through the Cisco Networking
Academy, building stronger communities,
and applying our resources to the most
pressing societal issues.
Transforming our business model
As we integrate our products and services
into architectures, we are selling more
software and subscription-based offerings.
These are designed to provide our
customers with flexibility and continuous
value, and at the same time they help us to
shift our business model to more recurring
revenue streams.
In fiscal 2018, we delivered strong top-line
growth and profitability, reporting our
highest-ever revenue of $49.3 billion.
Recurring offers accounted for 32% of
our total revenue in fiscal 2018, and
revenue from subscriptions was 54% of
our software revenue. Our intention is to
continue to drive recurring revenues by
applying a subscription-based model to
many of the new products we launch and
ultimately across our entire portfolio.
Our balance sheet remains strong, and
we generated $13.7 billion in operating
cash flow in fiscal 2018. We returned
$23.6 billion to shareholders, comprising
$6.0 billion of dividends and $17.7 billion
of share repurchases.
Capitalizing on our opportunities
Our solid performance in fiscal 2018
demonstrates a combination of strong
customer adoption of our latest solutions,
the ongoing value customers see in our
software and subscription offerings, and
excellent execution. Our customers are
looking for us to provide even greater
value to them by redesigning their IT
architecture; delivering security; and
building, orchestrating, and managing
applications. We are delivering solutions
that matter to our customers, our strategy
is working, and we believe we are well
positioned to capture growth across
our portfolio.
We are looking forward to fiscal 2019
with a clear focus on growth, execution,
and innovation. We will continue to drive
automation, security, and analytics across
the entire network infrastructure. We will
also leverage our assets and the power
of connections across our portfolio and
create an architecture designed to support
our customers’ success—all the way
from IoT to multicloud—in a way that only
Cisco can.
Thank you for your continued support.
Charles H. Robbins
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
October 17, 2018