Dear Fellow Shareholders:
2018 was a year of steady and meaningful progress for Citi toward the overarching goal we laid out at our Investor Day in 2017: to improve the returns we generate on shareholders’ capital through 2020 and beyond. On that day, we also outlined our strategy to meet that commitment. We would drive sustainable, client-led revenue growth by deepening our relationships with current clients and capturing new ones in target segments. We would use our scale and technology to enhance our capabilities while lowering our cost to serve clients. We would optimize our capital base, including returning all capital above what we need to prudently operate and invest in the firm. Finally, we would continue to focus on our controls and risk management to ensure Citi is an indisputably strong and stable institution.
In 2018, we did each of those things while demonstrating our ability to navigate a complex environment, which swung from a start marked by positive sentiment driven by U.S. tax reform and synchronized global growth to a close when markets declined with a volatility and velocity rarely seen. After a fourth quarter marked by concerns about the business cycle, trade with China and the impact of Federal Reserve interest rate policy, our continued progress in 2018 provided welcome assurance that our people, model and global franchise are resilient in challenging markets.

Across our firm we drove growth, as we said we would do, by deepening relationships with current clients while also attracting new ones.

In our Global Consumer Bank, we used our scale and technology to make it easier for our clients to seamlessly bank with us, through their channel of choice. In our U.S. franchise, our enhanced mobile app now gives clients a comprehensive view of their finances and, in an industry first, gives non-Citi clients those same capabilities. In Mexico, our redesigned mobile app is driving double-digit user growth. We are leveraging our experience in Asia, where we have high digital engagement and a growing digital lending platform.

In our Institutional Clients Group, we upgraded our capabilities to focus fully on providing clients with solutions, not products. Our Treasury and Trade Solutions business offers the industry’s most versatile and powerful suite of digital platforms, tools and analytics. A prime example is the launch of Citi Smart Match®, created in partnership with fintech firm HighRadius, which uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to enable our corporate clients to automate the matching of open invoices to payments.

But we’re not stopping there. Across Citi, we’re continuously innovating to enhance our value proposition and accelerate our speed to market. We’re streamlining client onboarding, providing more personalized offers, creating more intuitive and convenient self-service platforms, and taking pain points out of our processes. These actions lowered our cost to serve clients and enabled us to fund investments in areas that position us for future growth. In the second half of 2018, efficiency savings outpaced our incremental investments by about $200 million, an amount we expect to grow into the $500 million–$600 million range in both 2019 and 2020.

We also made structural changes across the franchise to drive growth and boost returns.

In our largest Consumer market — the U.S. — we created a more effective client-centric structure that unifies the leadership and strategy of our Branded Card and Retail Banking businesses, consistent with our consumer franchises in Asia and Mexico. Our franchise should not only attract new clients but also enable us to convert a larger proportion of our more than 28 million Branded Card clients into multi-relationship customers. As many of our current Card clients reside beyond our six-city retail branch footprint, we believe we can broaden these relationships by providing unique and compelling value propositions, combined with our industry-leading digital capabilities and nationwide ATM network.

In our Institutional Clients Group, we also made structural changes to further enhance our clients’ experience. By combining our Corporate, Investment Banking and Capital-Markets Origination divisions into a new unit, Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory, we’re providing clients with access to a broader range of creative solutions across our institutional platform. We’re also seeing the fruits of greater connectivity between our Treasury and Trade Solutions and foreign exchange businesses. Above all, we’re giving ourselves an opportunity to take a broader, deeper, more holistic view of our clients and their evolving needs.

All of those actions supported our strategy and contributed to our business performance in 2018. The $18 billion of net income we earned was 14% higher than in 2017, excluding the one-time impact of Tax Reform in both periods.1 On the same basis, our earnings per share increased 25% to $6.65 per share, driven by higher net income and the benefit of share repurchases. And we continued to make progress on our efficiency ratio, driving it down to approximately 57% for the year after lowering our expense base to just under $42 billion.

Perhaps most significantly, our Return on Tangible Common Equity (ROTCE), increased to 10.9%2, surpassing our target of at least 10.5% for the year as we work toward our goal of at least 13.5% for 2020.

CITIGROUP — KEY CAPITAL METRICS
CITIGROUP — KEY CAPITAL METRICS

2018 NET REVENUES1
2018 NET REVENUE

Our performance on the Federal Reserve’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) stress test approved us to return $22 billion of capital for the 2018 cycle, and we are on track to meet our goal, subject to regulatory approval, of returning at least $60 billion of capital through the three CCAR cycles ending in 2020.

In the Global Consumer Bank and the Institutional Clients Group, we generated underlying revenue growth of 3%, excluding the impact of gains on sale in both periods.3 In our Global Consumer Bank, we realized the benefits of investments we made over the past several years in areas of growth, including U.S. Branded Cards; Retail Services, aided by the acquisition of the L.L.Bean portfolio; and Mexico, where we’re gaining market share and accelerating our digital transformation. In Asia, we saw healthy inflows of assets under management and good growth in the number of Citigold clients, despite the uncertain macro environment that impacted investment revenues.

Pay Equity Review
Pay Equity Review

Raw Pay Gap Data
Raw Pay Gap Data

In the Institutional Clients Group, volatility and uncertainty at the end of the year adversely impacted our market-sensitive businesses, including Fixed Income and Investment Banking, although we grew share and revenues in M&A Advisory and Equities for the year. Our steady accrual businesses — Treasury and Trade Solutions, Securities Services, the Private Bank and Corporate Lending — grew revenues by 9% for the year. Our backbone Treasury and Trade Solutions business distinguished itself by growing revenues for the fifth consecutive year in constant dollars. And despite concerns about trade rhetoric and tariffs, our global network — one that is hard to see replicated in the current environment — showed it is well-positioned to capture flows no matter where they shift.

Our bankers also served clients with distinction, advising on some of the biggest deals of the year. A sampling includes NEX Group’s merger with CME Group, advising Time Warner on its acquisition by AT&T, serving as joint financial advisor to Ant Financial on the largest capital raise by a private company, and Nestlé Holdings on its first U.S. dollar private placement.

The trust, satisfaction and loyalty we’re building with Citi clients are also words that come to mind when I think about my Citi colleagues worldwide. They express how I feel about a number of close colleagues and friends of the firm who chose 2018 either to retire or embark on an exciting new phase of their life. I won’t name them all, but I will note the important transition we announced in the fall, when, after nearly seven years as Chairman and a decade on our Board of Directors, Michael O’Neill retired. We are enormously grateful to Michael O’Neill for making Citi’s Board and our firm stronger, better, more diverse and more capable.

The Board elected John C. Dugan as the next Chair. In doing so, we maintained our model of having a Non-Executive Chair, which is in keeping with leading corporate governance practices. John is a former Comptroller of the Currency, distinguished counselor and longtime industry leader. Having been a Board member since 2017 and an advisor to the Board before that, he knows our firm well and has hit the ground running.

Franz Humer and Anthony Santomero will also retire in 2019, having reached the retirement age for Citi Directors. Tony has been on the Board since 2009 and chaired the Citibank Board and the Risk Management Committee. Franz has been on the Board since 2012 and chaired the Ethics and Culture Committee. We thank both of them for their years of service.

We also thank and congratulate several senior members of my management team on their retirement, including our Chief Financial Officer, John Gerspach, who is being succeeded by longtime Citi executive Mark Mason. Each of these talented executives will be missed, yet we’re excited to welcome a new group of executives into leadership positions at Citi, where I am sure they will shine.

In 2018, we also decided, on a number of occasions, that there are times when a company must take a stand. One of those times came in January, when in keeping with our commitment to diversity and inclusion, we were the first financial services firm to voluntarily disclose our adjusted pay gap between women and men in the U.S., the U.K. and Germany and between minorities and non-minorities in the U.S. We found that women were paid on average 99% of what men were paid and minorities were paid on average 99% of what nonminorities were paid, and we made pay adjustments to help close the gaps. We viewed this as a first step on the road toward greater pay equity transparency.

In February, I signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, joining more than 350 CEOs and presidents committed to driving policy changes and practices in our own firms that advance equitable workplaces. Over the summer, my management team and I announced representation goals aimed at increasing the number of black colleagues in the U.S. and female colleagues globally in senior positions at our firm.

At the end of the day, what matters most to me is that every Citi colleague feels pride in who they are and that Citi stands with them. In my experience, having a diverse team of people around the table with different thoughts, insights and perspectives leads to better decisions.

In March, in the wake of the tragic school shooting in Parkland, Florida, and the epidemic of gun violence in the U.S., we were the first bank to announce a Commercial Firearms Policy. It requires our retail sector clients to use established best practices, including background checks and age restrictions. We’re under no illusion that any policy is a perfect solution, but we — and I — couldn’t feel more strongly that it’s up to companies like ours to do more when we can.

Throughout the year, our colleagues demonstrated their commitment to the communities we serve. In June, we brought more than 100,000 Citi volunteers, alumni, clients, friends and families in over 450 cities in 90 countries and territories to work on more than 1,400 service projects in their communities. It was our largest Global Community Day ever. From feeding hungry people to revitalizing schools, our people showed the positive impact our company makes in the communities we serve.

The hard work of thousands of Citi colleagues has created a culture of which we can be proud. It’s a culture based on a foundation of ethics and execution, informed by our mission of enabling growth and economic progress around the world.

These efforts are among the reasons Euromoney named Citi “Best Bank for Corporate Social Responsibility.” I couldn’t have said it better myself than the editors did: “The focus on improving economies for everyone is something that runs deep at Citi.”

That focus is reflected in our Sustainable Progress initiative, under which we recorded $95 billion of transactions toward our 10-year, $100 billion environmental finance goal. It is a goal we are going to reach almost five years ahead of schedule.

Citi Announced a Global, Mission-Led Partnership with the International Paralympic Committee
“Citi and the IPC are ideal partners because we share a deep passion for helping to foster a more diverse and inclusive society. These athletes have overcome adversity to achieve the world’s most elite level of sporting excellence. Their strength, perseverance and determination is truly what makes them exceptional, and we look forward to supporting their journey to compete on the global stage.”
— CEO Michael Corbat
The 18 National Paralympic Committees Citi
The 18 National Paralympic Committees Citi will sponsor include Australia, Chinese Taipei, Colombia, Costa Rica, Great Britain, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Philippines, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Thailand and the UAE.

The international partnership will run through 2020 and includes support for National Paralympic Committees in 18 countries as they prepare for upcoming World and regional Championships, as well as the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games. Through the partnership, Citi aims to raise awareness for the Paralympic Movement, support Para athletes, and advocate for societal change in perceptions around disability.
That focus also informed the Citi Foundation’s partnership with the International Rescue Committee to invest in training and placement for young refugees in Nigeria, Jordan and Greece. That partnership is part of our $100 million commitment through Pathways to Progress to help 500,000 young people globally to access economic opportunity through the workforce.

We entered 2019 with determination and focus. We have articulated our goals and have the resources to meet them. While the macroeconomic picture requires flexibility, we are prepared for a range of operating environments.

We will remain true to our mission of enabling growth and progress and will continue to be true to our values as we serve our clients. As we have shown in 2018, our targets are achievable and we are committed to continuing to make steady progress toward them every day throughout 2019.

Sincerely,
Michael Corbat Signature
Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc.