Dear Fellow Shareholders:
The ConocoPhillips team delivered another exceptional year in 2018. Our operational
performance drove strong financial results and generated sector-leading total
shareholder returns (TSR) of 16 percent. We view this strong TSR performance as
an endorsement of the disciplined, returns-focused value proposition we launched
in late 2016.
At that time, we implemented a strategy that we believe remains the right one for
the E&P sector. Although our business is opportunity-rich, it’s also mature, capitalintensive and cyclical. In embracing these realities, we’ve led the industry in setting
clear priorities for how we’ll allocate cash to generate superior returns through cycles.
Designing a value proposition is one thing; delivering on it is another. Over the past two years, we’ve taken
numerous actions to improve the underlying quality of our business. We’ve significantly lowered our sustaining
price and strengthened our balance sheet. We’ve grown our resource base with a cost of supply less than $40 per
barrel West Texas Intermediate. We’ve delivered competitive per-share growth, not chased absolute growth.
We’ve returned a distinctive portion of cash flows to shareholders, kept costs in check and generated one of our
industry’s most competitive financial returns. Our 2018 results demonstrate that our value proposition is working.
During the year ConocoPhillips achieved:
• Financial returns that surpassed the returns from just a few years ago when Brent prices averaged more than
50 percent higher;
• Cash from operations that exceeded capital spending by $5.5 billion;
• Higher-than-targeted production growth on a per debt-adjusted share basis;
• Debt reduction of $4.7 billion, thus achieving our $15 billion total debt target 18 months early;
• 35 percent payout of cash from operations to shareholders via our dividend and $3 billion of share buybacks;
• Portfolio enhancements through exploration success and acquisitions in Alaska, acreage additions in the Lower 48
and Canada, and proceeds from non-core asset dispositions of $1.1 billion;
• 147 percent total reserve replacement, and 109 percent organic reserve replacement excluding asset transactions;
• And year-end reserves of 5.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
Importantly, we delivered these milestones safely and sustainably, while engaging with our many stakeholders. 2018
was a gratifying year and we’re excited about our opportunities in 2019. We’ll maintain our disciplined approach
with a $6.1 billion capital budget, a focus on per-share growth, an increasing dividend, and $3 billion in planned
share buybacks for the third straight year. Operationally, we’ll conduct exploration, appraisal and development in
the Lower 48, Alaska, Canada and Europe, with major project decisions pending in China, Australia and elsewhere.
We believe that our 2019 operating plan reflects what you’ve come to expect from us. It’s consistent with our
priorities, focused on long-term value creation and underpinned by our commitment to strong execution. This is
our formula for delivering superior returns to shareholders through the cycles, and for many years to come. Our
formula works and we’re sticking to it.
We appreciate our employees and shareholders for their ongoing support of ConocoPhillips.
Ryan M. Lance
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Feb. 19, 2019