Dear Costco Shareholders:
When Costco was founded 35 years ago, we did not envision that we would become a $138 billion retailer,
employ over 245,000 people, operate over 750 warehouses or serve more than 94 million members
worldwide. Nor did we envision the breadth of products and services we now offer; or that what began as
a “cash-and-carry” operation would extend to delivering products to our members’ doorsteps. What we did
know, and set out to do, was maintain a steadfast commitment to value and integrity. We honor this
commitment in all aspects of our business, from providing quality merchandise at terrific prices; to treating
members, employees, and vendors with courtesy and respect; and to working closely with suppliers to
promote fairness, dignity, and safety throughout our supply chains.
These commitments, and our unwavering “do the right thing” philosophy, led us to another strong year in
fiscal 2018. Net sales for the 52-week fiscal year totaled $138 billion, an increase of 9.7 percent, with a
comparable sales increase of 9 percent. Net income for the 52-week fiscal year was $3.134 billion, or $7.09
per share, an increase of 17 percent. Revenue from membership fees increased 10.1 percent to $3.142
billion.
In addition to investing $3 billion in capital expenditures during fiscal 2018 to expand our business in many
ways, strong cash flows in fiscal 2018 allowed us to also declare dividends of $939 million and repurchase
shares of $322 million. As well, income tax savings from the recent U.S. tax law changes provided funding
to raise wages for most of our U.S. employees.
Costco remains strong and competitive in today's dynamic retail climate. We continue to open warehouses
domestically and internationally, expand and improve our ecommerce business, and add products under
our Kirkland Signature™ brand. The Kirkland Signature™ brand has become globally recognized as a “gold
standard” of high quality and exceptional value. In 2018, Kirkland Signature sales exceeded $39 billion,
compared to $35 billion in the prior year. We have broadened our selection in apparel, organic and fresh
foods, household basics, sporting goods, and health and beauty products, including the introduction of a
new razor. We have also intensified our focus on in-country sourcing, driving costs down, enhancing member
value, and reducing the environmental impacts of transportation.
With respect to vertical integration, we continue to explore opportunities that will allow us to realize even
greater member satisfaction, whether driven by price, quality or a combination. We enjoy continued success
in our bakery commissary in Canada, various packaging operations, optical and pharmacy central-fill
locations, and U.S. meat plants. Our chicken complex in Nebraska, which is currently under construction,
should yield similar results.
In 2018, we reached a milestone with our 750WK warehouse location. Fiscal . 2018 expansion included the
opening of 21 new warehouses around the globe, with our 100th location in Canada; and we continue to
add gas stations and other ancillary services to locations in different countries. We are not only focused on
new markets, but how we strategically infill and relocate within markets where we currently operate. In
2019, we expect to open 23 new warehouses and relocate up to 4 warehouses to more ideal locations.
Especially anticipated is the planned opening in 2019 of our West Shanghai warehouse, our first in China.
Our capital plans also extend to making improvements in our logistics that will drive value for our members.
We are investing in new ecommerce fulfillment centers and improved transportation logistics.
Membership renewal rates in the U.S. and Canada were 90 percent, and renewal rates worldwide saw an
increase to 88 percent. We are seeing higher sign-up rates from younger generations and a more diverse
membership base. This shift can be partially attributed to our buyers’ increased focus on products that have
an appeal that spans generations as well as sourcing products globally to expand cultural and ethnic
offerings.
Strong comparable sales and shopping frequency during fiscal 2018 reaffirm the demand and desire by
our members to shop in our warehouses. In 2018, we tested technology that will allow merchandise to be
moved faster through the registers and deployed self-checkout registers as well as self-ordering kiosks for
the Food Court. Research and development is underway toward a fob that will allow members to pay for
gas with a single swipe, eliminating the need to access their membership or credit cards.
We remain keenly aware that changing preferences of consumers, technological advancements and the
ever-changing retail climate will continue to alter the ways in which members shop. “Hot buys,” ecommerce
product showcases, online ordering capabilities and grocery delivery have all contributed to sales growth
of over 30% in ecommerce for the fiscal year. Along with everyday merchandise, impressive sales were
achieved in high-end items at outstanding values, such as Super Bowl tickets packages, diamonds, tablets
and laptops, designer handbags and accessories, and once-in-a-lifetime vacation packages. Our new “hotel
only” booking engine and expanded partnerships with new hotels provide greater value and convenience
for our members. Such activities have positively impacted our business, both online and in-warehouse,
and are helping our sales momentum, while also increasing our digital presence.
We remain committed to operating our business and sourcing our products using sustainable practices,
being mindful of our global impact on people, communities and the environment. We believe sustainability
is important to many of us who care deeply about how and where a product originates, the treatment of
workers and animals, and environmental impacts. We strive to be good stewards and follow our code of
conduct, requiring sustainable practices from suppliers, manufacturers, and farmers. This includes
eliminating harmful chemicals, emphasizing recycled and compostable packaging materials, saving energy
at our warehouses and depots, and donating more perishable items to food banks.
We continue to be proud of creating a climate of inclusion, diversity and a positive work environment for
employees globally. We recognize our consistently efficient and loyal employee base with competitive pay
and benefits, and opportunities for growth and advancement. These sentiments were recently acknowledged
in a survey by Indeed, identifying Costco as one of the top five Best Rated Workplaces in 2018 among
Fortune 500 companies. Our relationship with our employees is fundamental to driving our business not
only in the present, but over the long term.
We reached a key milestone as Costco co-founder Jim Sinegal stepped down in 2018, ending 35 years
with the Company. Jim’s extraordinary vision, passion and work ethic have impacted so many. While Jim
still is frequently seen at the corporate headquarters and regularly visits warehouses, he is enjoying more
time with family and actively participating in philanthropic and other pursuits. We remain resolute in carrying
on the principal philosophy and values that Jim, along with Jeff Brotman, originally established for Costco
in 1983.
In closing, I express my gratitude to the 245,000 employees and more than 94 million members worldwide
who help make Costco the undeniable leader in membership warehouses, and one of the best retailers
worldwide.
Thank you for your continued trust in and support of Costco. May the year ahead bring you and your families
good health, happiness, peace, and prosperity.
Sincerely,
Craig Jelinek
President and Chief Executive Officer