Dear Fellow Shareholders:

Today’s health care system faces a broad range of challenges, from its complexity and lack of support for patients, to a focus on episodic care in a fee-for-service environment. Moreover, fragmentation among various stakeholders all too often leaves patients struggling to manage and coordinate their own care. These factors have led to unnecessary, avoidable spending and inferior outcomes for patients. In fact, research shows that up to 25 percent of the more than $2 trillion the United States spends annually on treating patients with chronic conditions is preventable.

I believe that CVS Health is best positioned to tackle these challenges and remake the consumer health care experience. Through our CVS Pharmacy® locations and unique suite of integrated assets, we can open a new front door to health care that is both easier to use and less expensive. What are some of these assets? They include our CVS Caremark® pharmacy benefits business, MinuteClinic® , Coram® infusion services, Accordant® nurse care management, and, of course, our transformative acquisition of Aetna® completed in November 2018.

Aetna acquisition creates multiple opportunities for medical cost savings and long-term growth
We continued to generate significant free cash flow and returned more than $2 billion to shareholders
Multiple drivers spurred PBM revenue gains as clients embraced new cost-saving options
In-store prescription volumes continued to rise while we also introduced new concept stores and pilot programs
GHG reductions, anti-smoking initiatives, and efforts at combating opioid addiction highlight our CSR commitments
In closing, I want to thank our board of directors, our shareholders, and the more than 290,000 colleagues who contribute on a daily basis to our work as health care innovators. If you haven’t already done so, please take a few minutes to read the pages that preceded this letter to learn more about the extraordinary work we are doing to create a better health care experience for the patients and clients that we serve. We are developing a uniquely powerful new platform that will enable us to transform the consumer health care experience.

Sincerely,
Larry signature
Larry J. Merlo 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
February 28, 2019