In 2018, Delta celebrated the 10th anniversary of our
groundbreaking merger with Northwest Airlines, which
created the foundation for the transformation of our company.
Every year since the merger, we have built on the success of
the previous year, learning lessons and honing our strategy to
achieve more for our people, our customers, our communities
and our shareholders.
First and foremost in our mind is running a safe, reliable and
customer-focused operation. In 2018, we had 143 cancel-free
days across the entire Delta system including both the
mainline and regional carriers, up from 90 days just a year
ago. We accelerated revenue growth to 8% on an
increasingly diverse revenue base and offset over 90% of the
$2 billion increase in fuel costs compared to the prior year. In
2018 more than half of our revenue was generated from
premium products, our loyalty program, aircraft maintenance
and cargo, relying substantially less on the Main Cabin
product. Importantly, we saw improvement in cost
performance and reduced non-fuel unit cost growth below the
rate of general inflation. We continued to strengthen our
brand, achieving a record high domestic net promoter score in
2018, with improvement in all geographic regions. And we
continue to launch partnerships with carriers throughout the
world — we started a joint venture with Korean Air, signed an
agreement with WestJet in Canada and filed for regulatory
approval to bring together the separate joint ventures with
Virgin Atlantic and Air France-KLM.
We broke records, flying more people than ever and widening
the gap with the competition. We unveiled new routes to
destinations across the globe and took delivery of world-class
aircraft including the A220 as we continue to transform our
fleet. We opened a state-of-the-art engine shop and outfitted
60,000 people in stylish and functional new uniforms. We
deployed innovative new technology to our pilots, flight
attendants and airport agents, enhanced our airports and
forged new relationships with other carriers as we accelerate
our global expansion. We made significant progress leveling
the playing field with state-subsidized Gulf region airlines.
Because our people are our foundation, for 2018 we paid
industry-leading compensation, including more than $1.3 billion
in profit sharing. For our shareholders, we produced an after-tax
return well above our cost of capital, paid $900 million in
dividends and repurchased $1.6 billion in shares. We continued
to strengthen our balance sheet, lowering our cost of borrowing
and improving the funded status of our pension plan.
Throughout it all, Delta people worked tirelessly to maintain
our unmatched standard of excellence, safety and reliability.
The human touch that Delta people provide is unique, and
it’s what continually sets us apart. Our culture — dedicated
to servant leadership, a passion for our business, supporting
our communities and building a sustainable future — is an
advantage no one can match.
Our powerful consumer brand, combined with our unmatched
competitive advantages, including the best employees in the
business, industry-leading operational reliability, a strong
global network, growing customer loyalty and an investment
grade balance sheet, support continued advancement as we
create long-term value for shareholders. Every day, we
become more passionate about running the best airline on the
planet and serving as many customers as possible.
Sincerely,