Dear Common Unitholders of Energy Transfer Partners, L.P.:
On August 1, 2018, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. (“ETE”), Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (“ETP”) and certain of their affiliates entered into a
merger agreement (as may be amended from time to time, the “merger agreement”), pursuant to which Streamline Merger Sub, LLC, a wholly owned
subsidiary of ETE, will merge with and into ETP, with ETP continuing as the surviving entity and a subsidiary of ETE (the “merger”). The board of
directors (the “ETP Board”) of Energy Transfer Partners, L.L.C. (“ETP Managing GP”), the general partner of Energy Transfer Partners GP, L.P., the
general partner of ETP, approved and agreed to submit the merger agreement and the merger to a vote of ETP common unitholders following the
recommendation of the conflicts committee of the ETP Board (the “ETP Conflicts Committee”). The ETP Conflicts Committee has determined that the
merger agreement and the merger are advisable and fair and reasonable to ETP, and in the best interests of ETP and the unaffiliated ETP common
unitholders and the ETP Board has determined that the form, terms and provisions of the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby,
including the merger and the ETP LPA amendment (as defined below), are advisable, fair and reasonable to and in the best interests of ETP and its
common unitholders, and in each case, has approved the merger agreement and the merger. Under the terms of the merger agreement, subject to certain
adjustments, holders of common units representing limited partner interests in ETP (“ETP common units”) will receive, for each ETP common unit
held, 1.28 common units representing limited partner interests in ETE (“ETE common units”).
The merger consideration to be received by holders of ETP common units is valued at $23.59 per unit based on the closing price of ETE common
units as of August 1, 2018, the last trading day before the public announcement of the merger, representing an approximate 11% premium to the
closing price of ETP common units of $18.43 on August 1, 2018, a 15% premium to the volume-weighted average closing price of ETP common units
for the ten trading days ended August 1, 2018 and a 19% premium to the volume-weighted average closing price of ETP common units for the 30
trading days ended August 1, 2018. The merger consideration is valued at $ per unit based on the closing price of ETE common units as
of , 2018, the most recent trading day prior to the date of this proxy statement/prospectus, representing a % premium to the closing price of
ETP common units of $ on , 2018, and a % premium to the volume-weighted average closing price of ETP common units for the five
trading days ended , 2018.
Immediately following the completion of the merger, it is expected that ETP common unitholders will own approximately % of the
outstanding ETE common units, based on the number of ETE common units outstanding, on a fully diluted basis, as of , 2018. The common
units of ETE and ETP are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbols “ETE” and “ETP,” respectively. Following the
consummation of the merger, it is expected that ETE will change its name to “Energy Transfer LP” and apply to continue the listing of its common
units on the NYSE under the new symbol “ET.” It is also expected that ETP will change its name to “Energy Transfer Operating, L.P.” and that the
Series C Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units representing limited partner interests in ETP and the Series D
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units representing limited partner interests in ETP will continue to trade on the
NYSE under the symbols “ETPprC” and “ETPprD,” respectively.
ETP is holding a special meeting of its common unitholders at , on , 2018 at , local time, to obtain the vote of its
common unitholders to adopt the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. Your vote is very important regardless of the
number of ETP common units you own. The merger cannot be completed unless the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding ETP common
Table of Contents
units, other than the ETP common units owned by ETE and its affiliates, and the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding ETP common units
vote for the adoption of the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby at the special meeting. The ETP Board recommends that
ETP common unitholders vote “FOR” the adoption of the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby and “FOR” the proposal
to approve the adjournment of the special meeting, if necessary, to solicit additional proxies if there are not sufficient votes to adopt the merger
agreement at the time of the special meeting. Pursuant to the merger agreement, ETE, which directly or indirectly owns all of the incentive
distribution rights and the general partner interest in ETP, as well as approximately 2.4% of the ETP common units outstanding as of August 1, 2018,
has agreed to vote all of the ETP common units owned beneficially or of record by ETE or its subsidiaries in favor of the approval of the merger
agreement and the merger and the approval of any actions required in furtherance thereof. Whether or not you expect to attend the special meeting in
person, we urge you to submit your proxy as promptly as possible through one of the delivery methods described in the accompanying proxy
statement/prospectus.
In addition, we urge you to read carefully the accompanying proxy statement/prospectus (and the documents incorporated by reference into
the accompanying proxy statement/prospectus), which includes important information about the merger agreement, the proposed merger and the
special meeting. Please pay particular attention to the section titled “Risk Factors” beginning on page 30 of the accompanying proxy
statement/prospectus.
On behalf of the ETP Board, we thank you for your continued support.
Neither the Securities and Exchange Commission nor any state securities commission has approved or disapproved of the securities to be
issued under the accompanying proxy statement/prospectus or determined that the accompanying proxy statement/prospectus is accurate or
complete. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.
The accompanying proxy statement/prospectus is dated , 2018 and is first being mailed to the common unitholders of ETP on or
about , 2018.
Sincerely,
Kelcy L. Warren
Chairman & Chief Executive Of icer of
Energy Transfer Partners, L.L.C., on behalf of
Energy Transfer Partners, L.P.