Letter from our CEO
Fellow Stakeholders,
Our continued focus on improving customer service
across our business, meeting demand for clean
and affordable energy and partnering with our
communities to deliver a smart, next-generation
energy grid allowed us to accelerate execution
of our strategy in 2018. Once again, we delivered
strong financial results and are well positioned for
stable growth.
Our progress has been driven by several factors, including:
• Industry recognized operational performance and a
customer-focused investment strategy across our six electric
companies, contributing to favorable regulatory outcomes
and continued earnings growth;
• A drive to reduce costs while continuing to seek out and
invest in the technology, infrastructure and innovations that
will advance the next-generation energy grid;
• A focus on maximizing the value of our clean generation
fleet through operational excellence and advocacy for state
and federal policies that recognize the environmental and
reliability benefits of nuclear energy; and
• Dedication to developing the workforce of the future and
contributing our time and resources to help build stronger
communities everywhere we operate.
These foundational principles comprise the core of our value
proposition and continue to guide each of our investment
decisions. The result has been three years of outperforming the
utility sector and a total shareholder return of 18 percent in the
midst of industry uncertainty and market volatility.
We see clear opportunities for continued growth by building on
our commitment to understanding what our customers want and
expect from us: A future built on affordable, reliable and clean
energy. Exelon is moving on multiple fronts to meet that demand.
We are investing in technology and infrastructure to increase
reliability and give customers more tools to control energy costs.
Our generation fleet, with the lowest carbon emissions of any
large generator, accounts for one of every nine carbon-free
electrons flowing on the grid today – more than twice as much
as any other generator. Our talented, diverse and dedicated
employees drive our success in both operating performance and
our recognized role as an essential community partner and civic
leader. Those components add up to strong, sustainable value
for shareholders and stakeholders.
“We see clear
opportunities for
continued growth
by building on our
commitment to
understanding what
our customers want
and expect from us:
A future built on
affordable, reliable
and clean energy.”
CONTENTS Letter from our CEO
3
“A key contributor
to financial
performance — and
to your continued
confidence in
us — is the work
accomplished in cost
management and
business process
transformation.”
Financial Performance
Exelon sustained strong financial performance throughout the
year. Our stock price closed 2018 at $45.10, up 14.4 percent
for the year compared with the S&P at (6.2%) and the UTY at
(0.2%). It has continued to post gains since the start of the year.
Adjusted operating (non-GAAP) earnings came in at $3.12 per
share, at the midpoint of our revised guidance range.*
 In addition,
we raised the dividend early in the year by 5 percent. Our balance
sheet remains strong, as evidenced by S&P and Fitch’s recent
upgrade decision based on the successful execution of growth
strategy and focus on regulated utility investments.
A key contributor to financial performance — and to your
continued confidence in us — is the work accomplished in cost
management and business process transformation. Our record
on cost reduction now stands at more than $900 million since
2015, and these savings will continue to drive future earnings.
Importantly, all our cost decisions have been based on sound
fundamentals that contribute to our long-term strategic
priorities, not short-term cuts.
Federal tax reform was also a strong driver for cash and earnings,
and also translated into customer savings. Exelon was one of the
first to execute a plan to return tax savings to utility customers,
resulting in savings of $675 million annually; clearly the right
thing to do.
Our GAAP earnings were $2.07 per diluted share in 2018,
compared with $3.99 in 2017. On an adjusted operating
(non-GAAP) basis, our earnings increased to $3.12 per diluted
share in 2018 from $2.62 in 2017. The $0.50 increase in
non-GAAP operating earnings primarily reflects the favorable
impacts of regulatory rate increases and weather conditions
at Exelon’s utilities and the favorable impacts of New York and
Illinois Zero Emissions Credit revenue and tax savings related to
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the Generation business, partially
offset by lower realized energy prices in the Generation business. 
* See definitions of non-GAAP measures and reconciliation to GAAP measures
provided on page 41.
CONTENTS Letter from our CEO
4
Delivering Value
Exelon Utilities moved forward on all fronts to maintain
operational excellence, enhance regulatory outcomes, provide
the foundation for enterprise-wide growth and become the utility
of the future. We invested $5.5 billion, primarily in infrastructure
and technology to provide a premium customer experience and
improved reliability. That investment increased our rate base by
$3 billion (8.7%), setting the foundation for continued growth.
Exelon Utilities in aggregate earned 9.7 percent in 2018, solidly
within our target range, and achieved positive results in multiple
regulatory rate reviews. This was especially true in some of
our PHI jurisdictions, where regulatory rate reviews resulted in
settlements for the first time in decades.
We are committed to a Connected Communities strategy and
have secured some important supporting policy wins. Pepco was
successful in pursuing legislation in the District of Columbia that
gives the company an important role in advancing the adoption
of electric vehicles and allows it to earn a return on its energy
efficiency programs and investments. The Maryland Public
Service Commission also has endorsed an important role for
our utilities in promoting electric vehicles and investing in the
associated infrastructure. Pennsylvania enacted legislation that
allows PECO to pursue alternative regulatory models, such as
formula rates, and ComEd is preparing a significant legislative
initiative in Illinois to strengthen the regulatory model.
Our continuing modernization investments have produced
significant gains in reliability and, in turn, customer satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction ranked in the top quartile at three of four
utilities, and we achieved first quartile results on more than half
of our customer operating metrics. A key contributor to our
success was continued investment in grid and gas infrastructure
modernization at all our utilities. This investment program has
placed three of our states in the top 10 of the GridWise Alliance’s
grid modernization scorecard, with Illinois at No. 2, Maryland
at No. 3 and the District at No. 9. All our remaining jurisdictions
scored in the top half of the scorecard.
From an operating perspective, our utilities continue to perform
at an exceptionally high level. All four of our utilities ended in the
top quartile in outage frequency performance. Each achieved top
quartile performance for outage duration with the exception of
PECO, which narrowly missed top quartile by one minute. This level
of reliability demonstrates that the investments we are making in
our system are yielding positive results for our customers. 
“Exelon Utilities
moved forward
on all fronts to
maintain operational
excellence,
enhance regulatory
outcomes, provide
the foundation for
enterprise-wide
growth and become
the utility of
the future.”
CONTENTS Letter from our CEO
5
Generating Clean Energy
Exelon Generation remains focused on cash flow, capital
allocation and debt management through active asset
management and optimization. Nuclear fleet valuation remains
a critical focus, and we are acting on several fronts. Oyster Creek
was retired, as planned, in September, after an outstanding
run of 439 days without an outage. In May 2017, we announced
that absent policy and price support in Pennsylvania, we would
retire TMI-1 in fall 2019. Legislation was recently introduced in
Pennsylvania that would amend the state’s Alternative Energy
Portfolio Standard to include nuclear as a qualifying resource,
and lawmakers in Illinois introduced new legislation to maintain
progress on preserving clean energy, including nuclear, and
promote the growth of renewables. We remain hopeful that
these measures will become law and provide continued support
for nuclear energy in the Commonwealth and Illinois. West
Medway, a 195 MW gas peaking project in Massachusetts, is
nearing commercial operation. The Net Power demonstration
plant is also very close to initial synchronization to the grid,
with full-scale testing currently underway. The project secured
a key investment from Occidental Petroleum and continues to
demonstrate strong promise for future growth.
The Constellation Wholesale team effectively managed the
power and gas portfolio through a period of seasonal volatility,
and we performed well in various load auctions. Constellation
Retail continued to experience compressed margins in power
but held market share and recorded strong customer renewals
in a hyper-competitive retail environment. Constellation
made major strides in business process transformation and
cost management, as part of their ongoing efforts to manage
challenging market conditions.
Generation fleet operations remained at industry-leading levels.
Exelon Power’s gas and hydro dispatch match and wind/solar
energy capture exceeded goal. The nuclear fleet set a record for
generation output, with a capacity factor of 94.6 percent and
strong refueling outage execution.
“Exelon Generation
remains focused on
cash flow, capital
allocation and
debt management
through active
asset management
and optimization.”
CONTENTS Letter from our CEO
6
Advocating for a Clean Energy Future
Our customers and other stakeholders in the communities we serve have made clear that they
want us to be active partners in efforts to address the threat posed by climate change. We continue
to advocate for policies on the state and federal level that preserve and expand all forms of clean
energy and address acknowledged market flaws that fail to properly value the environmental and
economic benefits of nuclear energy, which accounts for more than 60 percent of our nation’s
zero-carbon energy.
Zero Emissions Credit programs in Illinois and New York are working to secure nuclear plants,
preventing increased electricity costs to customers and helping those states meet their
carbon-reduction goals. Both programs prevailed in federal appellate court challenges, and the
revenue they provide contributed to our financial results in 2018. A similar program has been
implemented in New Jersey and will support the continued operation of the Salem nuclear plant.
In Massachusetts, we received positive decisions by the New England Independent System
Operator and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to authorize a cost of service agreement
that will enable our Mystic gas-powered generation units, supported by the acquisition of the
Everett Marine Terminal, to continue providing fuel security to the New England market for two
additional years.
“We continue to advocate for policies on
the state and federal level that preserve
and expand all forms of clean energy and
address acknowledged market flaws that
fail to properly value the environmental and
economic benefits of nuclear energy, which
accounts for more than 60 percent of our
nation’s zero-carbon energy.”
CONTENTS Letter from our CEO
7
Building a Strong Workforce and
Sustainable Communities
At Exelon, we know that diverse teams foster innovation
and deliver stronger results, both in our business and in the
communities we serve. We have taken a series of effective
actions to continue our progress on diversity and inclusion,
including active participation in the UN HeForShe campaign and
aggressive investment in science, technology, engineering and
math (STEM) education programs in our communities. We have
been widely recognized for these initiatives, most recently as one
of the best employers for diversity by Forbes, Black Enterprise
Magazine, DiversityInc, and the Human Rights Campaign.
Reinforcing the mandate for inclusiveness and the primacy of
respect in today’s workplace has been and will continue to be a
priority of the entire Exelon leadership team.
Exelon’s expenditures with diverse suppliers grew to $2.2 billion
in 2018, a 10 percent increase over 2017; and Exelon was
honored as one of Minority Business News magazine’s “Best
of the Decade” for our unwavering commitment to minority
business development and inclusion through our supply chain.
Last year was also another record-breaking year for employee
contributions and volunteerism, as well as corporate
philanthropy. Volunteer hours, employee giving, matching
gifts and participation all exceeded goals. Our reputation for
community service in each of our localities is strong, and our
employees feel an especially strong sense of connection through
their service.
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) recently announced that
Exelon and AES are the only two U.S. electric utilities to score
at the leadership level on the 2018 global CDP Climate Change
Survey, and we were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability
Index for the 13th year in a row. Finally, Fast Company named
Exelon as one of its World’s Most Innovative Companies for
2019. This is a tribute to our commitment to staying ahead of our
customers’ expectations, and to the creativity and engagement
of our employees, always looking for a better way.
“We have been widely
recognized for these
initiatives, most
recently as one of
the best employers
for diversity by
Forbes, Black
Enterprise Magazine,
DiversityInc,
and the Human
Rights Campaign.”
CONTENTS Letter from our CEO
8
Looking Forward
Powering a cleaner and brighter future for our customers and communities is the principal mission
of all 33,500 Exelon employees. They work to keep the power and gas flowing to our customers
24 hours a day, 365 days a year. I am proud to be a member of their team.
In the year ahead, we will continue to identify growth opportunities by focusing on capital allocation,
market reform, new technology and, most of all, better serving our customers. We will improve our
operating and financial margins through rigorous cost management, operational excellence and
employee and stakeholder engagement.
The company remains strong and we have established a foundation for continued confidence in our
value proposition. We are committed to deliver stable growth and an attractive dividend to you, and
we appreciate your confidence.
Sincerely,
Christopher M. Crane
President and Chief Executive Officer