As we mark the 20th anniversary of the merger that brought together Exxon and Mobil, we do so with our strongest portfolio of investments in two decades. It positions us to deliver attractive returns for you, our shareholders, far into the future.
Message from the Chairman
 
In 2018, we laid out a growth strategy designed to take advantage of the unique strengths that have made ExxonMobil an industry leader. These include a sharp focus on fundamentals; dedication to innovative technology; deep integration across our businesses; disciplined investment in advantaged projects; and industry-leading execution from our highly skilled workforce. Our goal is to significantly increase the earnings and cash flow generation capacity of our business.

In last year’s volatile margin and price environment, we generated earnings of $21 billion and cash flow from operations and asset sales of $40 billion – the highest since 2014. This strong performance enabled us to fund attractive investments, reduce debt, and increase the dividend by 6 percent – the 36th consecutive annual increase.

Our growth strategy takes advantage of our scale and expertise across each of our business lines.

In the Upstream, we achieved many important milestones including advancements in five key worldclass projects that will add significant new production.

In Guyana, multiple discoveries have raised our estimate of recoverable resources to more than 5 billion barrels of oil equivalent. We are fast-tracking development and expect oil production to start in 2020. In another deepwater development area, we increased our holdings to approximately 2.3 million net acres in Brazil’s pre-salt basins, where we plan to start drilling in 2019.

Onshore, we accelerated operations in the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico, building on our 2017 acquisition of high-quality, contiguous acreage that will enable significant low-cost production growth.

Our investments in this prolific region remain profitable at $35 per barrel. Integration through transportation investments linking this production to our refining and chemical assets allows us to capture additional value – from the wellhead to the consumer.

And we are working to add additional low-cost production in Papua New Guinea and Mozambique, where we are progressing new liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects.

Our successes in Upstream development were recognized in 2018 by the World Oil and Gas Council, when they honored ExxonMobil as “Explorer of the Year” – for the second consecutive year.

In our Downstream business, we progressed six major refining investments, all of which are advantaged versus industry. Three started up last year, including the Beaumont hydrofiner, the Antwerp delayed coker, and the Rotterdam advanced hydrocracker. These Downstream investments deliver higher-value products and are expected to generate 20-percent returns.

In our Chemical business, we moved forward on 13 new facilities to meet growing demand. Seven of these came online by the end of last year. The remaining six are on schedule. These investments, enhanced by our technologies and global supply chain, are expected to support 30-percent sales growth by 2025.

Across all of our operations, we are committed to maintaining a safe work environment enriched by diversity and characterized by open communications and trust. We strive to continuously improve and achieve the highest standards of excellence in all that we do.

This includes upholding the highest standards of corporate citizenship. We maintain high ethical standards, obey all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and respect local and national cultures.

We are also dedicated to reducing environmental impacts and managing the risks of climate change. Society faces a dual challenge: meeting growing energy needs while protecting the environment. ExxonMobil is playing our part by reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and making products that help our customers limit theirs. We are also leading the way in developing low-carbon technologies like carbon capture and storage and advanced biofuels.

ExxonMobil’s story spans more than 135 years. From supplying the fuel and lubricants for the first airplane in the early 20th century, to providing cleaner-burning natural gas to power entire cities today, it has been a history of meeting our customers’ changing needs and expectations. It has been one of continual improvement and innovation. And it has been a record of creating significant value for our shareholders and for society.

Building on this history, I believe the chapter we are writing today will be the most rewarding yet.

Darren Woods, Chairman and CEO

Darren Woods
Chairman and CEO