In 2018 we took aggressive steps to improve the efficiency and focus of
our traditional automotive business. At the same time we accelerated
our efforts to be a leader in the mobility services of tomorrow.
As we reinvent our business for the future we remain committed to
achieving strong results in the present. While 2018 was challenging,
we still achieved our ninth consecutive year of solid earnings and
positive operating-related cash flow. These profits enabled us to
distribute $3.1 billion to our shareholders last year, for a total of
$18.4 billion since 2012.
Looking ahead, to improve returns in the nearer term we are reducing
costs, improving operating efficiencies and focusing our resources on
vehicles that better meet our customers’ needs. This includes shifting
90 percent of our North American vehicle lineup volume to sport
utility vehicles, crossovers, trucks and commercial vehicles between
2018 and the end of 2020. We plan to refresh 75 percent of our lineup
in the United States by the end of 2020, including the introduction of
all-new Ford Ranger, Escape and Explorer vehicles this year.
As we strengthen our product portfolio, we are committed to reducing
vehicle emissions by delivering CO2
 reductions consistent with the
Paris Accord. We are investing $11 billion in electrification, and plan
to electrify our most popular nameplates including an all-electric
Mustang-inspired performance utility and Ford F-150.
Looking farther into the future, the actions we are taking to improve
efficiencies are freeing up capital to invest in emerging businesses. We
expect to invest $4 billion in our autonomous vehicle efforts through
2023, including our $1 billion investment in Argo AI.
To help us achieve our vision for the future of transportation, in 2018
we acquired the iconic Michigan Central Station in Detroit’s historic
Corktown neighborhood. We plan to transform this former railroad
station into the centerpiece of a vibrant new campus where Ford and
its partners will work on autonomous and electric vehicle businesses,
and design solutions for a transportation operating system that
makes mobility convenient and accessible. More than just a collection
of buildings, Corktown will serve as a magnet for talent and a catalyst
for change.
The future we are building at our new mobility campus is rooted in our
past. More than 115 years ago we began building cars in a small factory
in Detroit. From those humble beginnings we went on to revolutionize
mass production, build the first affordable car and put the world on
wheels. Our mission then was to make people’s lives better by making
mobility accessible and affordable.
That remains our mission today.
As we move through the 21st century we are reimagining what mobility
will look like beyond the privately owned internal combustion engine
automobile. That means not just smart cars, but also smart roads,
smart parking, smart public transit systems, and ways for them all
to talk to one another. It means rethinking cities so that even as
millions more people call them home, the air is cleaner, the streets
less congested, and everyone has access to efficient, affordable and
sustainable mobility.
To make this vision a reality we are working with and investing in all kinds
of new businesses, from radar and mapping technologies to artificial
intelligence platforms. We have a strategic alliance with Mahindra in India
that includes powertrain sharing and connected vehicle solutions.
More recently we announced an alliance with Volkswagen that will
begin with developing midsize pickup trucks for global markets
starting by 2022, followed by commercial vans. This alliance will drive
scale and efficiencies and enable us to share investments in vehicle
architectures that deliver distinct capabilities and technologies.
The greatest competitive advantage we have going forward is the
trust we have earned by providing mobility to people around the world
for more than a century.
Since the days of the Model T people have trusted us to get them where
they want to go, do what is right for them, and make their lives better.
Whatever form mobility takes in the future, our board of directors,
leadership team and extended family of employees are determined to
continue earning that trust as we strive to become the world’s most
trusted company designing smart vehicles for a smart world.
Thank you for your support of our efforts.
William Clay Ford, Jr.
Executive Chairman
March 15, 2019
