This is my first letter as Chairman and CEO of our company.
I want this to be a document you can use as a reference for how
we plan to run GE for the long term. As the saying goes, this is a
game of inches every day, not feet or miles, and I want us all to
keep score together. My goals are aligned with yours.
Like so many of you, I have been a lifelong student of GE. My
earliest mentors cut their teeth at this company, and much
of how I have operated and approached leadership and
teamwork throughout my career is rooted in GE’s own storied
management philosophy.
Coming into GE with this foundation from the outside has its
advantages. Someone with a fresh set of eyes can ask new
questions and look at challenges in a different way. We face a
number of hurdles, but the entire team at GE is focused on tackling
our issues head on and making progress across multiple metrics.
In this letter, I’ll walk you through the actions we are taking to
improve our financial position and strengthen our businesses.
It is clear we have work to do. In 2018, weak execution and
markets in Power were partially offset by strength in Aviation
and Healthcare. We took several charges related to Power and
finalized a $15 billion capital shortfall with our regulators related
to our run-off insurance business. We made major changes
to GE’s strategy, portfolio, leadership, and board—my own
appointment included.
We are doing everything in our power to return GE to a position of
strength, and we will need your support and patience to make sure
we do so. I am confident that we can for three reasons: our team,
our technology, and our global network.
First and most importantly is our team. One of the first things
I did as CEO was to begin to meet and talk with GE people. What I
found were talented colleagues from all over the world with grit,
resolve, and intelligence. They do not need any convincing that
how we operate must change. They are up for the fight and ready
to win—because GE matters.
We are doing everything in our power
to return GE to a position of strength
GE matters because our technology helps bring progress and
possibility to every corner of the planet—safely delivering people
where they need to go; powering homes, schools, hospitals, and
businesses; and offering more precise diagnostics and care when
patients need it most. Our equipment and solutions are deployed
in two-thirds of the world’s commercial aircraft departures,1
 more
than 2,200 gigawatts of the world’s power generation capacity, and
more than 4 million healthcare installations. This vast and valuable
installed base keeps us intimately involved with and often responsible
for the daily operations of our customers around the world, constantly
helping us to better understand and serve their needs.
PERFORMANCE METRICS
Dollars in millions; except per-share amounts 2018 2017 YoY
GAAP
Total Revenues $121,615 $118,243 3%
GE Cash from Operating Activities (CFOA) $2,258 $11,033 (80)%
GE Industrial Profit $(19,759) $1,482 U
GE Industrial Profit Margin (17.4)% 1.3% U
Continuing EPS (diluted) $(2.43) $(0.99) U
Net EPS (diluted) $(2.62) $(1.03) U
Non-GAAP*
GE Industrial Segment Organic Revenues $109,340 $109,220 –
Adjusted GE Industrial Free Cash Flows (FCF) $4,515 $5,562 (19)%
Adjusted GE Industrial Profit $10,203 $11,257 (9)%
Adjusted GE Industrial Profit Margin 9.0% 10.1% (110) bps
Adjusted EPS (diluted) $0.65 $1.00 (35)%
This purpose has driven more than 125 years of GE innovation, and
it is as strong as at any time in our history. That’s what drives the
renewal of our aircraft engine portfolio—from the T901 turboshaft
for the U.S. Army to the GE9X, the world’s largest jet engine. It is
why Renewable Energy is building the Haliade-X, the world’s largest
and most powerful wind turbine, which has blades longer than a
football field. It is why our engineers were the first to leverage new
gas turbine technology, setting world records for combined-cycle
Dear fellow shareholder,
* Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Please see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section on pages 70-77 of the Management s Discussion and Analysis within our Form 10-K
for explanations of why we use these Non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. 1 Including CFM International, a 50-50 joint venture between Snecma (Safran) and GE.
Our team at the Additive Customer Experience Center in Pennsylvania discusses the next step
in the additive manufacturing process of removing a build from an Electron Beam Melting
(EBM) 3D-printer and moving it into a Powder Recovery System. This system salvages unused
metal powder, reduces waste, and prevents cross-contamination. Pictured from left to
right: Bryan Bossong, Jessica Gonzalez, and Ed (G) Rowley, GE Additive
GE 2018 Annual Report 3
'
efficiency with our HA turbines in both 2016 and 2018.2
 And it is
why Healthcare helps doctors develop more precise diagnostics and
treatment that can give hope to patients whose diagnoses were
previously considered hopeless.
Many companies have strong talent and technology. But few also
operate with the depth and strength of GE’s global network.
We’ve built a local presence, a strong brand, and deep customer
relationships in more than 180 countries, and we have invested
in emerging markets in Africa and Asia for more than 100 years.
We are proud to serve as true partners in their growth and
development—offering resources and experience, investing
in local talent and supply chains, and bringing other partners
along with us. These networks will continue to be our unique
competitive advantage as we pursue profitable, cash-generating
growth for years to come.
With these strengths as our foundation, we have a straightforward
plan to address our issues and define GE’s path forward, focused
on two priorities.
1 Improve our financial position
First, we are putting GE on firmer financial footing. Simply put, we
have too much debt and we need to reduce it thoughtfully and
soon. Once we put our balance sheet in a healthier place, we’ll be
in a better position to play offense across all our businesses.
We intend to maintain a disciplined financial policy, targeting
a sustainable credit rating in the single-A range, GE industrial
leverage of less than 2.5x net debt*-to-EBITDA, a GE Capital
debt-to-equity ratio of less than 4-to-1, and ultimately a dividend
level in line with our peers.
This starts with reducing leverage at both our industrial
businesses and GE Capital, and we have taken important steps
to get there. We completed substantially all of our $20 billion
industrial asset sale plan, and we also announced the sale of
our BioPharma business to Danaher Corporation for more than
$21 billion. We have more options available to us down the line
to generate cash to help bring down our leverage, including our
remaining interests in Baker Hughes, a GE company (BHGE)
2 62.22 percent combined-cycle net efficiency (at EDF Bouchain in 2016 with a 9HA.01) and 63.08 percent combined-cycle gross efficiency (at Chubu’s Nishi Nagoya in
2018 with three 7HA.01 turbines).
2018: Investing for
the Future Launched the LOGIQ E10, a next-generation radiology
ultrasound system integrating artificial intelligence, cloud
connectivity, and advanced algorithms to acquire and
reconstruct data faster than ever before—which helps
clinicians make a real difference in patient care.
Announced Reservoir battery energy storage
platform that delivers 5 percent higher
efficiency and reduced installation time
and costs.
and Wabtec Corporation and continued flexibility for our
go-forward Healthcare business. We also took the painful but
necessary action of reducing GE’s dividend, allowing GE to retain
approximately $4 billion of cash per year compared to the prior
payout level.
Our strategy at GE Capital continues to center on de-risking
the balance sheet and reducing our assets to become a smaller,
more focused business. We made strides in 2018, executing on
$15 billion of our $25 billion asset reduction plan, paying down
debt by $21 billion, and enabling $10 billion of orders for our
industrial businesses. We also recently assessed the reserves we
hold for our run-off insurance business. We recorded an additional
reserve of $65 million, after tax, and consistent with what we laid
out last January, we plan to contribute approximately $14.5 billion
of capital over seven years. We contributed $3.5 billion of this in
2018 and $1.9 billion in 2019.
Over time, the biggest lever we have to improve our financial
position is to prioritize cash generation in each of our businesses.
To that end, we are improving how we operationally manage cash
every day, in every business, and are using lean management
practices to improve working capital levels. For example, our
Aviation team used lean and digital tools to improve average cycle
time for the LEAP-1B, reducing the average engine assembly time
by 10 days, or 36 percent. This led to lower inventory levels, more
efficient throughput, and ultimately more available cash.
We are also removing waste and increasing speed across our
supply chains—from our suppliers through our factories and field
service force and into our customers’ workflows. That helps our
partners, and it helps us.
2 Strengthen our businesses,
starting with Power
Our goal is to run more empowered, accountable businesses that
are in the best possible position to create value for their customers
and improve top-line and bottom-line performance.
4 GE 2018 Annual Report
* Non-GAAP Financial Measure. Please see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section on pages 70-77 of the Management s Discussion and Analysis within our Form 10-K
for explanations of why we use these Non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
'
We have strong fundamentals in many places from which to build.
Aviation had an outstanding 2018, expanding segment profit
by 20 percent. The team shipped over 1,100 CFM International
LEAP engines—a remarkable achievement in just the third year
of production—and ended 2018 with more than 11,000 units in
backlog. 2018 also marked entry into service for our Passport
engine and the first flight of the GE9X.
Revenue in Healthcare grew by 5 percent organically*, driven
by growing demand in developed and emerging markets for
Healthcare Systems and continued growth in both biologics and
contrast agents in Life Sciences. Segment margins increased by
100 basis points on an organic basis* due to the team’s strong
productivity and execution.
Renewable Energy revenue grew by 4 percent in 2018, and
our onshore team was recognized as the No. 1 wind turbine
manufacturer in the United States in 2018 based on new installs.3
However, profitability fell, and we are focused on improving
margins by driving better productivity and reducing cost.
2019 will be a year of change for Power in particular. Power’s
challenges in 2018 were rooted in a combination of secular and
cyclical market pressures, ongoing profit and cash pressures from
legacy contracts, and some issues of our own doing. Going forward,
we will continue aligning our cost structure with this new market
reality, and we’ve eliminated some headquarter layers to improve
accountability and cost structures in underlying businesses.
We also need to run Power better, improving how we manage
our inventory and material management, product development
and delivery, and billings and collections. For example, by moving
responsibility for collections closer to the customer relationship
managers, Power was able to improve its visibility to cash
and collect it earlier in the quarter. Where we used to get just
35 percent of our cash in the first two months of the quarter, in
the fourth quarter, Power increased this to 50 percent. This kind of
operational improvement takes hard work, and it is a multi-year
journey, but I’m encouraged by the Power team’s dedication
and progress.
* Non-GAAP Financial Measure. Please see the CEO letter supplemental information package posted to the investor relations section of our website at www.ge.com
for explanations of why we use these Non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. 3 American Wind Energy Association (2019, January 19). “U.S. Wind Industry Fourth Quarter 2018 Market Report ”. Retrieved from https://www.awea.org/resources/
publications-and-reports/market-reports/2018-u-s-wind-industry-market-reports.
Introduced the Haliade-X 12 MW, the most
powerful offshore wind turbine in the world.
Launched onshore wind turbine platform
Cypress, which features a jointed, customizable
blade that is easier to transport and tailor
according to each customer’s needs.
Achieved first flight of the GE9X, the world’s largest
jet engine. Slated for certification this year, the GE9X
powers Boeing’s new 777X, and is designed to deliver
10 percent improvement in fuel efficiency compared
to the GE90-115B-powered Boeing 777-300ER.
For changes like these to truly take root, our businesses need
to have more control over their decisions and rely less on the
corporate office. Broadly speaking, if we want to run more
empowered and accountable businesses, we need to radically
change how we operate across GE.
Part of this involves sharpening our focus. We are investing in
high-tech industries where we have large, mission-critical installed
bases with high potential for aftermarket services and parts, and
where our engineering, manufacturing, and service scale provide
competitive advantages.
This kind of work takes time. But it’s work
we can no doubt do
We announced plans to exit BHGE and Transportation to give
them greater control over their strategic direction and capital
allocation. The recently announced sale of our BioPharma business
gets us closer to a place where we aren’t spending so much of our
agenda tending to the balance sheet, putting us on better footing
to consider the right options for Healthcare over time.
At Merkur Offshore Wind arm, 66 Haliade 150-6 MW wind turbines will power a
half million German homes.
GE 2018 Annual Repo
We reorganized our Global Growth Organization and Global
Operations to serve local market and GE business needs more
efficiently. Going forward, our center will be smaller and primarily
focused on strategy, capital allocation, research, talent, and
governance. In 2018, we reduced headquarters spend by over
$400 million, and we’re de-layering at both Corporate and
our businesses to improve accountability and visibility across
our teams.
Finally, we’re reinventing how we work. GE has a long legacy of
operating rigor, leadership development, and innovation, but our
recent performance has exposed some gaps. We are getting “back
to basics” by focusing on three main things:
• Put our customer at the center. As I’ve spent time with
customers in China, the Middle East, Europe, and the United
States, it’s become clear to me that what they value is
not always aligned with GE’s own metrics for success. For
example, when I ask about quality internally, I often hear
about our cost of quality, which measures our issues rather
than how the customer experiences us. We need to shift our
lens back to the customer and work backward to improve
what matters to them. If we can do this successfully, our own
growth and performance will follow. We can’t win unless our
customers win.
• Manage for operational performance first. This means
not just setting ambitious targets, but also making sure we
have clear, achievable paths to get there. I’ve been spending
lots of time in my reviews with the business leaders looking
at detailed operational metrics and processes so that we can
understand not just the “how much” of what we choose to do,
but the “how.”
• Set fewer, more impactful priorities. GE has ambition like
no other company I’ve seen. That’s mostly a good thing, but
we need to focus our attention on the things that matter most
so we can move them the furthest. At the company level, we
have committed to the two priorities I just outlined: Improve
our financial position and strengthen our businesses, starting
with Power. We’ll operate in a similar fashion in each of
our businesses.
This kind of work takes time. But it’s work we can no doubt do.
Path to growth
I am excited by the growth opportunities I see across GE’s markets.
In aviation markets, demand for air travel continues to grow, with
more than 4.5 billion passenger departures projected in 2019.4
Relatively low fuel prices enhance commercial airline profitability
and support continued operation of mature-fleet aircraft, while
global defense spending is rising at its fastest rate in a decade.5
GE has provided groundbreaking propulsion technology for
100 years—since a Packard-Lepere biplane equipped with a GE
turbosupercharger climbed to nearly 30,000 feet over McCook
Field in Dayton, Ohio, in 1919. Today, GE Aviation’s engines
contain highly advanced technology including carbon composite
fan blades, heat-resistant ceramic matrix composite (CMC)
components, and 3D-printed metal parts designed to deliver
industry-leading performance, reliability, and durability.
4 International Air Transport Association (2018, December 12). “Economic Performance of the Airline Industry ”. Retrieved from https://www.iata.org/publications/
economics/Reports/Industry-Econ-Performance/IATA-Economic-Performance-of-the-Industry-end-year-2018-report.pdf. 5 IHS Markit (2018, December 18). “Jane’s Annual Defence Budget Report ”. Retrieved from https://ihsmarkit.com/products/janes-defence-budgets.html. 6 Including CFM International, a 50-50 joint venture between Snecma (Safran) and GE.
GE’s Businesses
Wabtec
Combined GE Transportation
with Wabtec, creating a global
leader for rail equipment,
services, and software
Baker Hughes,
a GE Company
Pursuing an orderly separation
from BHGE, the world’s first
and only fullstream oil & gas
company, to maximize value
for both companies
Positioned for upside in extended industries
High-tech focused company
Aviation
Powering two-thirds of commercial aircraft departures6
~70,000 aircraft engines
Healthcare
Providing 16,000+ scans every minute
4 million+ healthcare installations
Renewable Energy
Installed 400+ GW capacity globally
40,000+ onshore wind turbines
Power
Equipping 90 percent of transmission utilities worldwide
7,000+ gas turbines and nearly 6,000 coal and
nuclear steam turbines
Digital + Capital + Research + Global Growth + Additive
6 GE 2018 Annual Report
intelligence, machine learning, and robotics to material science,
electric power, and bioelectric medicine. And our Digital team,
newly reorganized to operate more like a startup, is focused on
developing software for the Industrial Internet of Things. Their
breakthroughs will help enable growth across our industrial
portfolio for decades to come.
Final thoughts
I’d like to extend my heartfelt appreciation to GE’s employees,
customers, alumni, and Board for their commitment and passion
to advance this company forward. I’ve found inspiration in their
expressions of support (“we’re rooting for you!”) and offers to help
(“what can I do?”). We have work to do, but we’ve identified clear
opportunities for improvement and are addressing them with
focus and energy.
Ernst Kraaij, a GE Power leader, wrote to me recently saying that
he felt GE’s attitude right now is reflected in the famous proverb,
“the beginning of wisdom is to call things by their proper name.”
I think that Ernst is right. At times, doing so can be painful, but we
are embracing our reality and executing the plan we’ve laid out to
create value for our people, for our customers, and for you. Now it’s
more about what we do than what we say.
Thank you for the opportunity to earn your confidence and trust.
H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
February 26, 2019
We are among the first to industrialize 3D-printing, also known
as additive manufacturing, which expands design capability,
improves performance, and simplifies manufacturing. We’ve
produced more than 30,000 additive fuel nozzle tips for the CFM
LEAP engine, and we’re expanding the use of additive on new
engines such as the GE9X, Catalyst turboprop, and T901. While
still an emerging technology, additive manufacturing continues to
grow, and it’s helping us make better products for our customers
at a scale few others have achieved.
In energy markets, governments and utilities all over the world
face the challenge of bringing affordable, reliable, and sustainable
electricity to ever more people, all while reducing emissions and
managing different fuel sources.
Now it’s more about what we do than
what we say
The energy mix continues to shift dramatically, with roughly
two-thirds of global capacity additions through 2040 projected to
be in renewables. Meanwhile, demand for natural gas is still on the
rise, due in part to ample availability at low cost in markets like
the United States and increasing coal-to-gas switching, especially
in emerging economies in Asia.7
GE is determined to lead this transition. We’re making bold bets in
clean energy while our turbines and technology allow customers to
quickly dispatch more reliable, affordable fuels such as natural gas
when they are needed. Across our product portfolio, we are using a
combination of hardware and software to grow our service offerings
and help utilities maintain and extend the life of their equipment.
Finally, healthcare markets need increased capacity, improved
productivity, and better patient outcomes across the world. Aging
populations, increasing chronic and lifestyle-related disease,
accelerating demand for healthcare in emerging markets, and
the increasing use of diagnostics and monitoring in patient care
continue to fuel demand for GE’s offerings. And our imaging agents
also help researchers improve clinical trials for new therapies by
helping identify the patients most likely to respond to innovative
new medicines.
It’s this kind of invention that is at GE’s heart and soul—in the
words of our founder Thomas Edison, finding out what the world
needs and proceeding to invent it. And our Research, Digital, and
Additive teams reach across all GE’s industries to further boost
this capability. More than 1,000 scientists at GE Research are
continuing to invent the future in these markets, from artificial 