MARY: Our vision is to create a world with zero crashes, zero
emissions, and zero congestion. Today’s technologies give us a
unique opportunity to make personal mobility better, safer, and
more sustainable. Each year, more than one million people are
killed in crashes around the world – 40,000 in the U.S. alone. When
you consider that human error is behind more than 90% of these
crashes, we believe autonomous vehicles (“AVs”) will save lives.
We are fully committed to an all-electric future, and we are already
building on the momentum of the groundbreaking Chevrolet Bolt
EV. In January, we announced that our Cadillac brand will lead the
way on our next-generation electric vehicle (“EV”) technology. At
the same time, we are improving the efficiency of today’s vehicles
with lightweighting and sophisticated new transmissions and
engines. To redefine the future of transportation, we must execute
with speed and discipline, and I am confident we have the team
and the technology to lead.
How do you think about culture at GM?
MARY: Our culture will determine the long-term success of the
Company. I’ve heard from many employees who feel that they are
part of something bigger and who are excited about making a
positive impact on the world.
We have been on a cultural journey since 2014, when the ignition
switch recall threatened our recovery from bankruptcy. At our
senior leadership team meeting that year, we realized that to
transform our culture, we needed to address the underlying issues
that were holding us back. So as a team we aligned ourselves
around a shared set of behaviors built on our core values that
continue to guide our actions today. Since that time, we have
introduced various initiatives to create a workplace and culture in
which our team members can thrive, yet be accountable for their
performance.
TIM: Your Board of Directors (the “Board”) believes that culture is
key to realizing GM’s vision of zero crashes, zero emissions, and
zero congestion. By sharing our outside perspectives, your Board
has helped GM reshape its behaviors and ultimately, its culture, as
it continues its transformation.
In November 2018, GM announced a comprehensive plan to
accelerate its strategic transformation. Can you discuss why you
took these actions?
TIM: We have been navigating the dramatic changes facing our
industry and taking decisive actions to stay in front of this change.
Over the years we have strengthened our core business by
deploying resources in regions and franchises where we see higherreturn opportunities over the long term.
MARY: Our focus all along has been to reposition the Company
from one of trying to be all things to all people in all markets to one
that is strategic, agile, and profitable. By accelerating GM’s
transformation, we can more rapidly invest in the future of
personal mobility. Our transformation plan involves tough but
necessary actions. We took these actions following significant
feedback and input from the Board – input that began during our
annual strategic review in 2017 and continued throughout 2018.
This is a dynamic transformation process, and we will continue to
look around corners and over the horizon to make strategic
decisions that strengthen our business today and position it for
long-term success.
What is GM doing to create a more sustainable future?
TIM: Your Board understands that for GM to remain a compelling
investment opportunity, the Company must contribute to a safer,
more sustainable future, particularly through continued efforts to
reduce emissions from vehicles and facilities. GM is committed to
an all-electric future as well as maintaining a sustainable supply
chain. For example, in 2018, GM sourced 20% of its total power
from renewable sources – leading the automotive sector and
progressing towards our commitment to source 100% of our power
from renewable sources by 2050.
MARY: We believe in the science of climate change, and we
recognize that the transportation sector is a contributor to global
greenhouse gas emissions. We have called on lawmakers to
establish a National Zero Emission Vehicle program – a
comprehensive approach to drive the scale and infrastructure
investments needed to enable the U.S. to lead the way to a
zero-emissions future – as well as enact complementary policies to
spur market acceptance and commercialization of EVs