DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS:
Your Board and management team are committed to creating long-term value for our shareholders. This
commitment is reflected in our core values, which provide the foundation for our business and reflect the culture
that was built by our founders nearly 40 years ago. We would like to highlight for you some actions we took in
fiscal 2018 to ensure we are optimizing our governance practices to support continued value creation over the
long term.
Strategic Engagement and Oversight. At our December 2017 Investor and Analyst Conference, we outlined
our long-term plan to create the One Home Depot experience, including a multi-year investment of approximately
$11 billion. The Board’s engagement with management to address both the short-term needs and long-term
strategies necessary to meet our customers’ expectations in a rapidly evolving retail landscape helped to shape
this plan and to continue to refine it as the Company began to execute on the plan in fiscal 2018. Company
strategy is discussed regularly at Board meetings, and directors annually participate in an in-depth strategy
session with management. Through these strategy sessions we tap into the ideas, viewpoints and experiences
of our diverse and highly-skilled board members.
Director Refreshment and Recruiting. We have continued to focus on Board refreshment to align our Board’s
strengths with the evolving retail landscape. New director Stephanie Linnartz, who serves as the Executive Vice
President and Global Chief Commercial Officer for Marriott International, joined us in May 2018. She provides
us with a significant source of expertise as we roll out the One Home Depot experience, given her critical role
in developing the customer experience at Marriott. We also added Manuel Kadre, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of MBB Auto Group, to our Board in October. His service on other boards and management expertise
has further enhanced our Board’s financial, strategic, environmental and real estate experience. After 11 years
of service, Armando Codina will be retiring from the Board at the end of his current term at the annual meeting
in May. Mark Vadon has also decided to step down at the end of his current term in May after serving on our
Board for six years. Both have been valued members of our Board, and we deeply appreciate their service to
The Home Depot and our shareholders.
Shareholder Engagement and Governance. The Board and management carefully analyzed the results of
the voting at the 2018 annual meeting, and at the Board’s direction, the Company initiated an expanded
environmental, social and governance engagement program with our institutional shareholders. After taking into
account feedback from those engagements, combined with the Company’s commitment to governance best
practices, the Board approved several changes. In late 2018, we enhanced our disclosure of our Company’s
diversity, providing statistics on our website about the ethnic and gender diversity of our U.S. workforce. This
disclosure will become part of our annual Responsibility Report going forward. In February 2019, we reduced
the percentage of outstanding shares required to call a special meeting of shareholders from 25% to 15% and
updated our executive compensation clawback policy to specifically include conduct that causes significant
reputational harm to the Company.
Underpinning all of these actions is a commitment to our shareholders, which is in turn embodied in the shareholder
return principles that we have consistently outlined for our investor community. By following these principles, we
were able to return value to our shareholders in fiscal 2018 through a 16% increase in our quarterly dividend
and $10.0 billion in share repurchases.
We hope you will be able to join us at our 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on Thursday, May 23, 2019.
You will find information about the Meeting, including the matters to be voted on at the Meeting, in the enclosed
Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement. The Meeting will also include a report on the Company’s performance
and operations and a question and answer session. On behalf of our over 400,000 associates and our Board,
we thank you for your support of The Home Depot.
Sincerely,
Craig A. Menear Gregory D. Brenneman
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Independent Lead Director