This is my 16th and final letter to the shareowners of Honeywell. When I compare where we are
today with the bleak early days of my first letter—which appeared in Honeywell’s 2002 Annual Report—
I am reminded of what a tremendously fulfilling experience it has been to lead this great company.
Those early days are fun to think about, but they sure were unpleasant at the time. Back then, we
were an underperforming, problem-filled company with numerous legacy issues. Now, we are a
company that routinely receives awards for financial, environmental, and community performance. I am
proud to have played a role in bringing about all of these positive changes and building the foundation
for the company we are today.
When I first came to Honeywell, an analyst asked what I wanted my legacy to be. I said there were
three things I wanted to accomplish. First, I wanted anyone associated with me during my time at
Honeywell to be able to say they had done well. Clearly, this has been important to our investors, and
the vast majority are pleased with our performance over time. But employees are investors, too. In a
recent analysis, we found that about 2,500 employees and former employees had become 401(k)
millionaires. These were by no means only executives—in fact, 94% of them are below the executive
band level, and some have salaries in the low $40s. To be able to create this level of wealth for
employees feels really good.
Second, I wanted Honeywell to be a place targeted by recruiters for leaders of all kinds. Of course,
I also wanted Honeywell to be a place where leaders tended to stay because they did well and the work
was fulfilling. I believe we have done very well in developing and retaining leaders as well as many
other talented employees in all disciplines around the world.
Third, I wanted to be able to own my shares ten years after I left the company—or to say it another
way, I wanted the people, processes, and portfolio we put in place to sustain Honeywell’s performance
well beyond the time of my retirement. This is how institutions are created–not by one leader
performing well, but by the next leader sustaining and building on that performance. Nearly one year
past the time when Darius became CEO, things are looking good for me and other long-term
shareowners. While Honeywell’s processes are much more efficient and effective than they were
16 years ago, there is still plenty of upside to be gained through further improvements. Our portfolio
continues to get better as we improve our growth profile with acquisitions and exits. We have terrific
leaders in place, and that is particularly true of our CEO Darius Adamczyk.
The CEO makes a huge difference in the performance of a company. Leadership matters, and
Darius is a tremendous leader. He has an intense desire to win; he is smart, analytical, and thinks
independently; he has the courage of his convictions; and he isn’t afraid to make difficult decisions that
make the Company better. He is intensely curious and approaches every aspect of the job with passion
and enthusiasm. He focuses on having the right people, organized correctly, and aligned around
superior business strategies.
Darius will be the first to tell you a terrific first year is great, but he will judge himself on how he
outperforms during his full tenure. Having watched Darius over a number of years and having worked
with him closely over the last two years during our transition, I am extremely confident we chose the
right leader for Honeywell. Darius is building on what I did to create a company that generates
tremendous value, and he will take Honeywell to the next level. You will be impressed. All I ask is that
you remember I was instrumental in picking him!
It has really been an honor for me to lead Honeywell. Our people have been terrific, and we far
exceeded what anyone ever expected of us. It was incredibly fun to build a company. It is even more
rewarding to see it built even further. For Honeywell, the best is yet to come.
Sincerely,
DAVID M. COTE
Executive Chairman