Dear Fellow
Stockholders,
It continues to be an exciting time in healthcare
as the industry is beginning to show signs
of true transformation, including movement
toward a more integrated, holistic approach
to affordable care using value-based payment
models focused on improving the health
outcomes of consumers. This evolution is more
important than ever given our country’s aging
population and continued growth in the number
of chronic conditions seniors are facing. We
believe that companies like Humana that are at
the forefront of this change have the greatest
opportunity to improve the lives of the millions
of people we serve.
Humana had a strong year of growth and
success in 2018. Fueled by strong Medicare
Advantage results and the success of our
integrated care delivery model, we reported
adjusted earnings per diluted common share
(EPS) of $14.55, an increase of over 24 percent
compared to adjusted EPS of $11.71 in 2017.
Strong Medicare Advantage membership gains
during 2018 and our transition to providing
healthcare services to more military service
members, retirees and their families under the
new TRICARE East Region contract led to over
18 percent growth in our membership base,
reaching 16.6 million members at year-end.
Despite our exit from the individual commercial
business as of January 1, 2018, we reported
revenues of $56.91 billion in 2018 exceeding
revenues of $53.77 billion in 2017, again backed
by the strong performance of our Medicare
Advantage business. As we move further
into 2019, we intend to continue to advance
our consumer and health-focused strategy,
recognizing the importance of being on the
leading edge of value-based care.
This movement toward value-based care is
highly dependent on the health engagement
of consumers and providers. As such, we are
keenly focused on removing friction points to
simplify the experience and creating personal
and relevant interactions. We are pleased to see
recent external actions aimed at the removal
of the most significant barriers to this change.
For example, the government’s interoperability
efforts have led to an increase in the volume
and velocity of information available from the
implementation of technology that puts the
entire health record of a Medicare patient at
their fingertips, giving them the power to decide
who may access that information. In the end,
it’s the healthcare consumers who benefit as
it makes it easier for them to understand and
participate in their health journey with their
doctors and caregivers.
Bruce Broussard, President and Chief Executive
Officer, and Kurt Hilzinger, Chairman of the Board
We have also seen changes to reimbursement
models like Medicare Advantage, including the
expansion of reimbursement to cover services
that address social determinants such as
food insecurity and social isolation, which can
have a significant positive impact on people’s
health. Finally, we are seeing a growing number
of providers adopt value-based payment
models, armed with predictive data models
and more information to proactively monitor,
intervene and assist their patients to prevent
the occurrence of a significant health event.
As more personalized and predictive care is
extended beyond the current physical and
provider boundaries, innovations like remote
monitoring combined with technological
advancements like cloud computing and
integrated and agnostic data sets will greatly
improve the quality of healthcare in our
country.
Throughout this transformation, we have seen
Humana’s integrated care delivery model
improve health outcomes as demonstrated by
an increase in Healthy Days1
and a reduction
in inpatient hospital admissions. We now see
care moving to lower-cost outpatient settings
like the home, our members’ location of choice
for receiving care. Our desire to drive the most
impactful and effective clinical outcomes has
led us to focus on what we have found to be
five key areas of influence—Primary Care, the
Home, Pharmacy, Behavioral Health and
Social Determinants.
Medicare Advantage
membership has
shown strong
g
Five key areas
of influence
Primary Care
In 2018, we continued to expand our valuebased care footprint, which now totals 233
owned, joint venture and alliance seniorfocused primary care clinics, the majority
of which are payer-agnostic. This expansion
leverages the expertise and capital of our
partners to test innovative models, like our pilot
of two Partners in Primary Care clinics inside
Walgreens stores in Kansas City,iMissouri. In
addition, the south Florida and Texas provider
operations were combined under a single
physician-governed brand, Conviva, to
optimize the operating model and increase
physician engagement.
Home Care
In the home, our acquisition of a 40 percent
interest in Kindred at Home and Curo Health
Services—combined to create the nation’s
largest home health and hospice provider
with 65 percent overlap with our individual
Medicare Advantage membership—provides
us a unique opportunity to transform
the in-home care model to one based on
clinical outcomes as opposed to volume. In
2018, our management teams worked to
establish Kindred at Home as an independent
home health company, integrated the Curo
acquisition and launched four home health
pilots focused on testing care and payment
models oriented to patients with multiple
chronic conditions combined with the delivery
of care through telehealth in the home.
Pharmacy
Turning to pharmacy, we are pleased that
Humana Pharmacy was ranked the No. 1
mail-order pharmacy by J.D. Power based
on our exemplary service. We continue to see
industry-leading mail-order penetration rates
and remain focused on the importance of
medication adherence in slowing or preventing
disease progression. We recognize value-based
payment models improve this health measure,
as evidenced by, for example, 3 percent better
diabetes medication adherence2
for Medicare
Advantage members receiving care from a
provider in a value-based arrangement versus
those in a FFS arrangement.
Behavioral Health
Behavioral health is at the core of our clinical
care offerings as we recognize the significant
impact mental health has on an individual’s
physical health and well-being. To drive better
clinical outcomes, we expanded our internal
behavioral health model to our nearly 6 million
c
i ,
Outside our clinic strategy, we continued
to expand value-based relationships with
primary care providers through contractual risk
arrangements, often leveraging the capabilities
of our Medical Services Organization, or MSO.
Under both our clinic model and contractual
arrangements, we now have 67 percent of our
individual Medicare Advantage members with
providers in value-based arrangements, which
are critical for their improved quality of care.
For example, among our providers in a
value-based payment arrangement, we see a
5 percent reduction in hospital admissions
per thousand members (APT),2
7 percent
fewer emergency room visits per thousand
members (VPT),2
and 15.6 percent lower
medical costs for patients compared to
Original Medicare Fee-for-Service (FFS).2
We now have 67
percent of individual
Medicare Advantage
members with
providers in valuebased arrangements
TRICARE members in 2018 and we are now
beginning to insource our Medicare Advantage
behavioral health offerings, beginning
with Florida.
Social Determinants
Lastly, regarding social determinants, we
continue the work of our Bold Goal—to
improve the health of the communities
we serve 20 percent by 2020 and
beyond—by partnering with local community
agencies and programs to expand access to
critical support systems that address food
insecurity and social isolation, among other
endeavors. A senior who is food insecure
is much more likely to have a higher rate
of chronic conditions and increased health
struggles—50 percent more likely to be
diabetic,3
14 percent more likely to have high
blood pressure,3
60 percent more likely to have
congestive heart failure (CHF) or experience a
heart attack,3
and three times higher prevalence
of depression.3
Seniors living in our Bold Goal
communities continue to outperform other
communities we measure in terms of having
fewer Unhealthy Days. For perspective, each
additional Unhealthy Day is associated with
approximately $16 higher medical costs per
person per month.4
Importantly, we also continued to advance our
core operations in 2018, returning to strong
Medicare Advantage membership growth,
expanding our Medicaid operations as one
of only two companies awarded a statewide
Florida contract and exiting our individual
commercial business and non-core closed block
of long-term care insurance policies. We made
significant investments in our consumer and
provider-facing technology and announced the
planned launch of Studio H, a Boston-based
initiative focused on pioneering new digital
health products and services. Studio H will help
us accelerate the development of a critical
capability—creating a simplified, connected
and personalized healthcare experience for
our members, provider partners and other
caregivers.
Bruce D. Broussard
President, Chief Executive
Officer and Board member
Humana Inc.
Kurt J. Hilzinger
Chairman of
the Board
Humana Inc.
Looking ahead to the remainder of 2019, we
will continue the momentum of 2018’s success
by executing and proving out investments we
have made in our consumer-focused health
strategy, integrating clinical services and
insurance products to improve the health of our
members. We are building the infrastructure to
facilitate internal and external interoperability,
increasing data computing and developing
more agile consumer experience enhancement
tools. The combination of these investments will
accelerate key capabilities for the integrated care
delivery model, such as increasing the sharing of
data among clinicians, proactive identification
and closing of gaps in care, combined with an
increase in productivity for our clinical partners.
We are also refining our products to offer a more
personalized experience based on customer
segmentation to address the functional and
emotional needs of our members. While we have
more work to do, we are proud that Humana was
recognized by Newsweek as Best in Customer
Service among health insurance companies in
the magazine’s new “America’s Best Customer
Service 2019” rankings, and we will continue to
focus on providing exemplary service for
our members.
We are excited about our opportunity to improve
the lives of the millions of people we serve
while helping lead the way in transforming the
future of our industry. We owe our success,
in no small part, to our employees, members,
clinical and governmental partners and
shareholders. We especially want to thank
our approximately 42,000 employees for their
dedication, commitment and skill in serving
our members. We are proud to enter 2019 with
employee engagement at an all-time high in
the 92nd percentile, representing world-class
engagement. Our thanks also goes out to our
members for choosing and entrusting us to serve
their most important and personal needs—their
health. We would also like to thank our clinical
and governmental partners for their collective
commitment in working with us to improve
population health through actions that put
healthcare consumers first, resulting in better
outcomes and reduced costs. And finally, we
would like to thank you, our stockholders. Thanks
for your commitment to our organization and for
believing in our mission.
Sincerely,