"Our ambitions have never been greater, but with an expanded market comes new competition."
We find ourselves today at a significant moment in the history of the technology industry, and of Intel. We enter our second half-century as the world is reordering in ways that promise to make our company even more central to its future.

The fact that this year also marks my first as CEO leading this extraordinary team—and this annual report my first to you, our owners—brings all of this home to me in a highly personal way. The opportunities and the responsibilities are, frankly, both humbling and energizing as I meet Intel employees, partners and customers around the world.

When Intel was created in 1968, the world was witnessing an explosion of hardware capability. Propelled by Gordon Moore’s famous law, Intel, its partners and its customers transformed business and society by providing a run of innovation that rivaled the Industrial Revolution. At various points along the way, some believed that semiconductors had become commodities. Always, technology, together with software innovation, created new possibilities and opportunity that dwarfed everything that had come before it.

Today, computing is distributed into all things, now capable of entirely new and more powerful kinds of work—most notably, machine learning, deep learning and other forms of artificial intelligence (AI). We find ourselves again, not at an end, but at a beginning. The data-centric era is bringing volumes and varieties of information that make entirely new demands on our technology. A diversity of innovation will be required to make the leaps forward in performance, efficiency, latency, security and form factors that create value for our customers across the spectrum of new workloads.

In response, your company has been on a journey of transformation. One principally fueled by opportunity. This is visible in our financial performance. Exceeding the goals we set in January, we achieved record revenue in 2018, up 13 percent due to strong demand in both our datacentric and PC-centric businesses. We grew operating income faster than revenue, and earnings per share even faster. Improvements in operational efficiency contributed to these strong results, while we also invested a record $28.7 billion in R&D and capital spending to strengthen our competitive position.

We continued improving the performance and capabilities of our industry-leading CPUs while expanding our efforts to win in growth areas like AI, autonomous driving and 5G. We are developing new, purpose-built processors and technologies enabling new classes of products for our customers. We can do this because Intel is uniquely able to invest billions of dollars across six pillars of innovation that will drive computing forward: process and packaging technology, architectures, memory, interconnects, security technologies, and software. At the same time, we are researching completely new approaches to computing like neuromorphic, probabilistic and quantum that could unlock even greater opportunities. Today, Intel is not only the CPU leader in PC and server segments, but we are positioned to compete and hungry to win in a market for silicon that has expanded to more than $300 billion1 — the largest in our company’s history.

Finally, because our work is inherently linked to the growth not only of business but of society, innovation and economic impact must be accompanied by continued extension of our role as a global citizen and leader. The many dimensions of this are described in our Corporate Responsibility Report at www.intel.com/responsibility. I am especially proud of the outstanding diversity and inclusion accomplishment in which Intel reached full representation2 of women and underrepresented minorities in our U.S. workforce and gender pay equity across our global workforce. Also, to celebrate our 50th anniversary, Intel employees contributed 1.5 million volunteer hours around the world.

The path ahead, while enormously promising, remains challenging. As Andy Grove reminded us, it helps to be paranoid, and we take nothing for granted in driving our transformation forward.

Our ambitions have never been greater, but with an expanded market comes new competition. In particular, we have missed important milestones in process technology, which weighed on our customers and created opportunity for our competitors. To win, we must execute with excellence and at the same time approach every day with a growth mindset and a customer obsession. We must deeply internalize the essential role we play in our customers’ businesses and relentlessly anticipate their need for the scalable and highly-relevant innovation that only Intel can offer. Our data-centric strategy will continuously evolve, and we rigorously evaluate opportunities to accelerate our transformation, while optimizing return on our investments.

Our ace in the hole is our culture, and our ability to evolve it. This company is unbelievable in its ability to solve problems. Challenges can tear teams apart—or bring them together. Our leadership team and our employees responded to the challenges and opportunities of 2018 by coming together to engineer solutions, improve our execution and increase our output. I am confident that they will do so in 2019 and beyond.

That’s why I am so proud, humbled and grateful to find myself writing to you for the first time as the current steward of this special company to thank you for your continued support and trust. I truly believe our second half-century promises to be even more remarkable than our first.

CEO Signature
Bob Swan, Chief Executive Officer