The Fund provides a complete list of its holdings four times in each fiscal year, at the
quarter-ends. For the second and fourth quarters, the lists appear in the Fund’s semiannual and annual reports to shareholders. For the first and third quarters, the Fund
files the lists with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form N-Q (or any
successor Form). The Fund’s Form N-Q (or any successor Form) filings are available
on the SEC website, sec.gov. The SEC file numbers for the Fund are 811-07452 and
033-57340. The Fund’s most recent portfolio holdings, as filed on Form N-Q (or any
successor Form), have also been made available to insurance companies issuing variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies (“variable products”) that
invest in the Fund.
A description of the policies and procedures that the Fund uses to determine how to
vote proxies relating to portfolio securities is available without charge, upon request, from
our Client Services department at 800 959 4246 or at invesco.com/proxyguidelines.
The information is also available on the SEC website, sec.gov.
Information regarding how the Fund voted proxies related to its portfolio securities
during the most recent 12-month period ended June 30 is available at invesco.com/
proxysearch. The information is also available on the SEC website, sec.gov.
Invesco Advisers, Inc. is an investment adviser; it provides investment advisory
services to individual and institutional clients and does not sell securities. Invesco
Distributors, Inc. is the US distributor for Invesco Ltd.’s retail mutual funds, exchangetraded funds and institutional money market funds. Both are wholly owned, indirect
subsidiaries of Invesco Ltd.
This report must be accompanied or preceded by a currently effective Fund
prospectus and variable product prospectus, which contain more complete
information, including sales charges and expenses. Investors should read each
carefully before investing.
Invesco V.I. American Franchise Fund
Market conditions and your Fund
Calendar year 2018 proved to be an increasingly volatile time for US equities. In
January 2018, US equity markets steadily moved higher, as investors remained
enthused about the passage of the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law in late
December 2017. However, in February
2018, volatility returned to the US stock
and bond markets. Worries about how
rising interest rates might affect economic growth, concerns about a potential
trade war and heightened geopolitical
tensions caused the US stock markets to
pull back and volatility to increase.
US equity markets generally recovered
in the second quarter of 2018 as strong
US retail sales and low unemployment
buoyed markets. Throughout the summer, US equities moved higher as corporate profits surged. Several US equity indexes reached new highs despite
potential headwinds including trade tensions, tariff announcements and contagion concerns over a Turkish currency
crisis. After a relatively quiet summer,
market volatility noticeably rose in October, as US equity markets suffered a
sharp sell-off through year-end, amid rising interest rates and concerns that higher inflation could mean a more restrictive
monetary policy. In this environment,
there was a flight to safety, as investors
fled to defensive areas of the equities
markets, like health care and utilities, and
US Treasuries.
Given signs of a strong economy, the
US Federal Reserve raised interest rates
four times during the year: in March,
June, September and December 2018.
Following December’s Federal Reserve
meeting, Chairman Jerome Powell raised
interest rates for the fourth time in 2018
by 25 basis points to a targeted range of
2.25% to 2.50%, and lowered guidance
from three to two rate hikes in 2019, signaling a slightly more dovish stance than
expected.1 In contrast, the European Central Bank and central banks in several other countries maintained extraordinarily
accommodative monetary policies.
During the year, the Fund produced a
loss and underperformed the style-specific benchmark. Stock selection in the communication services and consumer staples sectors, as well as overweight exposures in the communication services and
energy sectors, were key detractors from
relative performance. Key contributors to
relative performance included stock selection and underweight exposures in the
industrials and materials sectors, as well
as stock selection in the information technology (IT) sector. Ancillary cash was
also beneficial to relative returns given
stock market volatility during the year.
Within communication services, entertainment industry holdings Nintendo and
Activision Blizzard were key individual
detractors from both absolute and relative returns for the year. Nintendo’s stock
fell in the second quarter following a decline in its Switch console sales that resulted from a lack of momentum in Nintendo Labo, a series of do-it-yourself kits
that work with the Switch console. Nintendo also saw a lack of Switch support
for popular third-party titles, such as
“Fortnite.” Activision Blizzard experienced weak third-quarter results and reduced its outlook after experiencing a
lower-than-expected performance of the
expansion pack for its key “Destiny” title
and a lack of a major game release for
2019. In general, global video game
stocks saw weakness in the fourth quarter as a result of China’s regulatory headwinds combined with a market rotation
out of growth and toward defensive
areas.
During the year, an overweight allocation in Facebook detracted from the
Fund’s performance relative to the stylespecific benchmark. The social media
company faced a few tough periods in
2018, with the first being a major sell-off
in March following the announcement
that Cambridge Analytica (not a Fund
holding) had harvested personal data
from profiles to use for targeted political
ads. In July, Facebook’s management released guidance indicating slower-thanexpected revenue growth in the second
half of 2018 driven by the migration of
Management’s Discussion of Fund Performance
The Fund’s holdings are subject to change, and
there is no assurance that the Fund will continue to
hold any particular security.
*Excluding money market fund holdings.
Data presented here are as of December 31, 2018.
Portfolio Composition
By sector % of total net assets
Information Technology 22.4%
Consumer Discretionary 22.1
Communication Services 20.4
Health Care 16.7
Industrials 7.5
Consumer Staples 2.5
Energy 2.5
Financials 2.3
Materials 2.3
Money Market Funds
Plus Other Assets Less Liabilities 1.3
Top 10 Equity Holdings*
% of total net assets
1. Amazon.com, Inc. 8.6%
2. Alphabet Inc.-Class A 7.0
3. Facebook, Inc.-Class A 4.1
4. Microsoft Corp. 4.1
5. UnitedHealth Group Inc. 3.9
6. Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd.-ADR 3.7
7. Mastercard Inc.-Class A 3.5
8. Visa Inc.-Class A 3.2
9. salesforce.com, inc. 3.1
10. Lowe's Cos., Inc. 3.1
Total Net Assets $538.4 million
Total Number of Holdings* 66
Performance summary
For the year ended December 31, 2018, Series I shares of Invesco V.I. American
Franchise Fund (the Fund) underperformed the Russell 1000 Growth Index, the
Fund’s style-specific benchmark.
Your Fund’s long-term performance appears later in this report.
Fund vs. Indexes
Total returns, 12/31/17 to 12/31/18, excluding variable product issuer charges.
If variable product issuer charges were included, returns would be lower.
Series I Shares –3.62%
Series II Shares –3.89
S&P 500 IndexW (Broad Market Index) –4.38
Russell 1000 Growth IndexQ (Style-Specific Index) –1.51
Lipper VUF Large-Cap Growth Funds IndexX (Peer Group Index) –0.68
Source(s): WFactSet Research Systems Inc.; QRIMES Technologies Corp.; XLipper Inc.
Invesco V.I. American Franchise Fund
users from the application’s News Feed to
its Stories section, along with higherthan-expected expense growth related to
safety, security and privacy controls. We
continued to hold the stock but decreased exposure throughout the year.
Within the energy sector, Noble Energy, Marathon Oil and Occidental Petroleum were among detractors from the
Fund’s performance versus the style-specific benchmark for the year. In general,
the energy sector was among the worstperforming sectors this year given volatility in oil prices. We used weakness in energy stocks to reallocate into companies
with higher conviction that we believed
were higher quality, such as Noble Energy. Shares of Noble Energy have
underperformed other large exploration
and production companies for the last
several years given its exposure to Mediterranean gas markets, which are still
ramping up and less understood by investors. We received shares of Marathon Oil
following its takeover of Andeavor (not a
Fund holding) and have maintained the
shares. Occidental Petroleum was sold
during the year as part of our original
reason for owning the stock had deteriorated. Gaps between crude oil prices in
the Permian Basin versus Brent Oil had
been wide earlier in the year due to energy infrastructure constraints. The gap
narrowed.
Within the consumer discretionary sector, retail and e-commerce giant Amazon.com was a key contributor to both
absolute and relative returns for the year.
Amazon reported strong revenue growth
across all segments and strong profit
margins in its retail and Amazon Web Services (AWS) segments. AWS provides ondemand cloud computing services enabling retailers to increase operational
efficiency in order to have a global reach
and gain scale quickly.
Within the IT sector, salesforce.com,
Mastercard and Palo Alto Networks
contributed to both absolute and relative
returns. salesforce.com provides customer relationship management (CRM) software that is delivered via internet browsers and on mobile devices to help
companies increase sales and promote
customer satisfaction. Quarterly revenue
results were strong during 2018, with
double-digit growth over the previous
year. Further, the company continued to
increase future guidance on these strong
results. Mastercard experienced strong
results for much of the year given payment volume growth due to its thoughtful
approach toward investments within the
business-to-business payments arena,
blockchain technology and fast ACH processing. Palo Alto Networks is a cybersecurity company that provides advanced
firewall protection and helps businesses
protect against cyber-attacks. Unlike its
competitors, Palo Alto Network’s services
run on the same hardware and threats
are evaluated with its unique “single
pass” technology. We believed this would
help Palo Alto Networks continue to gain
market share as security breaches increase worldwide.
At the end of the year, the Fund’s largest overweight positions relative to the
Russell 1000 Growth Index were in the
communication services, consumer discretionary, health care and energy sectors. The largest underweight exposures
were in the IT, industrials, consumer staples, financials and real estate sectors.
Our overweight exposures are primarily
focused on companies that we believe will
benefit from technology-driven market
share shifts, demographics and changing
consumer behaviors. While our underweight exposures are primarily driven by
late economic cycle dynamics, such as
excess inventory and slowing growth
rates in combination with reduced, and in
some cases reversed, fiscal stimulus or
high geopolitical uncertainty.
Our view is that we are in a slowing, but
not declining, growth environment as the
benefits of US tax stimulus and deregulation are offset by higher interest rates,
rising labor costs and trade pressures. In
such an environment, true growth will
likely remain scarce, and we believe the
market will favor companies that can produce growth and compound earnings in
spite of the economic cycle. We believe
that change is the fuel for growth, thus
we are seeking to identify “share-takers,”
companies that can gain market share
from technology-enabled advantages in
their business models and from disruptive shifts in consumer behavior. Though
we anticipate a possible economic slowing, we continue to prudently balance the
Fund’s portfolio between dynamic growth
opportunities and more durable growth
opportunities.
Thank you for your commitment to the
Invesco V.I. American Franchise Fund and
for sharing our long-term investment
horizon.
1 Source: US Federal Reserve
The views and opinions expressed in management’s
discussion of Fund performance are those of Invesco
Advisers, Inc. These views and opinions are subject
to change at any time based on factors such as
market and economic conditions. These views and
opinions may not be relied upon as investment
advice or recommendations, or as an offer for a
particular security. The information is not a complete
analysis of every aspect of any market, country,
industry, security or the Fund. Statements of fact are
from sources considered reliable, but Invesco
Advisers, Inc. makes no representation or warranty
as to their completeness or accuracy. Although
historical performance is no guarantee of future
results, these insights may help you understand our
investment management philosophy.
See important Fund and, if applicable, index
disclosures later in this report.
Erik Voss
Chartered Financial
Analyst, Portfolio Manager,
is lead manager of Invesco
V.I. American Franchise
Fund. He joined Invesco in
2010. Mr. Voss earned a BS in mathematics and an MS in finance from the
University of Wisconsin.
Ido Cohen
Portfolio Manager, is
manager of Invesco V.I.
American Franchise Fund.
He joined Invesco in 2010.
Mr. Cohen earned a BS in
economics from The Wharton School of
the University of Pennsylvania.