Dear Fellow Stockholders:
In 2018, Lockheed Martin led the way in aerospace and
defense – protecting lives, advancing scientific discovery,
and pushing the boundaries of innovation.
In a year that presented a range of dynamic geopolitical
challenges in a highly competitive business environment,
we focused on our customers and supported their vital
missions. As a result of this attention to our customers, our
consistent teamwork, and our exceptional performance, we
produced outstanding financial, operational, and strategic
results in 2018.
We grew our business and expanded our impact in the
United States and around the world. In addition, our
impressive and sustained performance helped us provide
long-term value for our shareholders – with strong earnings
and record new orders and backlog.
Each of our business areas contributed to the strong
performance, as we produced innovative and affordable
solutions across our portfolio.
At Aeronautics, we continued to deliver the world’s most
advanced aircraft to customers across the globe. At Missiles
and Fire Control, the demand for our integrated air-andmissile defense systems and tactical missiles increased, as
nations sought to defend their citizens from growing threats. At Rotary and Mission Systems, we further solidified
our position as a global leader in rotorcraft technology, sensors, radar systems, combat simulation and training, and
advanced cybersecurity. And at Space, we continued to define the leading edge of military, civil, and commercial
technology on the final frontier.
Throughout 2018, we delivered for our customers and shareholders and we continued to lay a solid foundation for
future success and future growth.
STRONG FINANCIAL RESULTS BASED ON OUTSTANDING
PERFORMANCE
Our consistent performance across our diverse portfolio was reflected in our financial results. Here are some key
financial metrics that reflect our strong and consistent operational performance in 2018:
• Record orders of $79.0 billion, leading to a record backlog of $130.5 billion
• Sales of $53.8 billion, up 8 percent versus 2017
• Segment operating profit* of $5.9 billion, up 15 percent versus 2017
• Segment margin* of 10.9 percent
• Net earnings of approximately $5.0 billion
• Diluted earnings per share of $17.59
Marillyn A. Hewson, Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer
Lockheed Martin Corporation II
We generated $3.1 billion in cash from operations in
2018, after pension contributions of $5.0 billion. And
we returned about $3.8 billion of our available cash
flow to stockholders throughout the year.
We paid cash dividends of $2.3 billion and increased
the quarterly dividend by 10 percent in the third
quarter to $2.20 per share or $8.80 per share annually.
Our 4.7 million share repurchases for 2018 totaled
$1.5 billion. We also increased the share repurchase
authority and authorized the use of accelerated share
repurchase plans to provide flexibility for future
returns.
AN ENDURING COMMITMENT
TO CUSTOMERS
At Lockheed Martin, our business achievements and
our sustained performance are built on putting our
customers at the center of everything we do.
We seek to engage our customers directly, so we can
listen to their needs and serve them well – today and
tomorrow. In 2018, we continued to strengthen our
relationships with elected leaders, policy makers, and
government officials. In an election year that brought
change to Washington, D.C., and to many U.S. state
capitals, we continued to work with both parties on
issues of national security and economic development.
Our ongoing outreach and dialogue helped reinforce
the critical role of our products, programs, and
capabilities in protecting citizens, creating jobs,
and driving economic growth. Reflecting this, the
federal budget and congressional spending decisions
supported key Lockheed Martin programs.
As we listen to and serve our customers, we do so
with a commitment to help position them for the
challenges in the years ahead. Our performance results
reflect our focus on their evolving needs and our
ability to anticipate, adapt, and innovate, so that our
customers can maintain their technological advantage
far into the future.
Our Leadership Team (from left to right): Frank A. St. John, Executive Vice President, Missiles and Fire Control; Richard F. Ambrose, Executive
Vice President, Space; Bruce L. Tanner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Marillyn A. Hewson, Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer; Dale P. Bennett, Executive Vice President, Rotary and Mission Systems; Michele A. Evans, Executive Vice President,
Aeronautics; Richard H. Edwards, Executive Vice President, Lockheed Martin International; and Kenneth R. Possenriede, who has been elected
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective February 11, 2019, succeeding Bruce L. Tanner, who is retiring from the company
later in 2019.
III 2018 Annual Report
Delivering Game-Changing Jet Fighters
At Aeronautics, we are delivering the most advanced
aircraft and aviation technologies in the world.
Nowhere is this leadership seen more clearly than
in the growth and impact of our globe-spanning
F-35 program.
Nations around the world are seeing the gamechanging capabilities of the F-35. In 2018, the
revolutionary fighter was used in combat for the first
time – by the Israeli Air Force and the U.S. Marine
Corps. With its stealth, range, and sensor-fusion
capabilities, the fifth-generation F-35 is increasingly
seen as a force multiplier that makes every branch of a
nation’s military more integrated and more effective.
In 2018, the program celebrated several international
milestones. We stood with officials from Australia,
Japan, and the United Kingdom as each marked the
home basing of their first F-35s. Our company also
rolled off the assembly line the first F-35s for South
Korea and Turkey. And in 2018, Belgium chose the F-35
as its fighter of the future.
To meet our strong backlog of orders, we continue
to successfully ramp up production. We met our
production targets for 2018, delivering 91 aircraft –
nearly a 40 percent increase over 2017.
In 2018, we also made bold moves to reshape our
operations and prepare for higher production in the
years to come. We opened a new 65,000-square-foot
parts manufacturing plant in Pinellas Park, Florida. We
expanded our facility in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, to
provide component final finish work. And we shifted
F-16 production to Greenville, South Carolina, to better
position our Fort Worth, Texas, facility to produce a
higher volume of F-35s at an increased rate.
In September 2018, we reached an $11.5 billion
agreement with the U.S. Department of Defense
to build 141 more F-35s for the Low Rate Initial
Production (LRIP) Lot 11. The Lot 11 agreement will
help reduce the cost of an F-35 by more than five
percent over the previous contract and represents an
overall drop in price per jet of more than 60 percent
when compared to the initial production contract. In
November, we won an additional $22.7 billion block
buy contract to produce over 250 more F-35 aircraft
for LRIP Lots 12, 13, and 14. With these growing
economies of scale, we will continue to make the
aircraft increasingly affordable for all our customers.
In addition, we are working with the U.S. Air Force to
modernize the only other fifth-generation fighter in the
world, the F-22 Raptor. We are adding new capabilities,
upgrading the performance of its weapons systems,
and providing improved sustainment, support, and
supply-chain management to ensure the F-22 is a force
for air dominance for decades to come.
The Bright Future for F-16s and Air Mobility
The iconic F-16 fighter continues to find new
customers. In 2018, Bahrain ordered 16 new F-16s.
Slovakia also agreed to purchase 14 new F-16 aircraft
to replace its Russian-made MiG-29 jets. And Bulgaria’s
Ministry of Defense recommended the F-16 Block 70
for the nation’s air force.
We continue to see strong demand for the C-130J
Super Hercules. The transport aircraft now serves
20 nations, with Germany the most recent addition.
We delivered a total of 25 C-130Js in 2018 – and hit
a company milestone with one of those 25 being our
400th delivery.
We also marked the 50th year of service for the C-5,
which is operated solely by the U.S. Air Force. We
delivered four C-5M Super Galaxy strategic transport
aircraft that we modernized under the USAF’s
Reliability Enhancement and Re-engining Program
(RERP). Our final delivery of the 52nd C-5M during the
year completed the RERP upgrade, which extends the
service life of the C-5 fleet out until the 2040s.
Air-and-Missile Defense and Precision Targeting
Missiles and Fire Control continued to develop and
implement the technologies that help countries keep
their citizens safe.
In December, we won a $1.8 billion contract to upgrade
the missile-defense capabilities of U.S. and allied
military forces. The contract is for production and
delivery of Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and
PAC-3 Missile Segment Enhancement (PAC-3 MSE)
interceptors and launcher modification kits for the U.S.
Army and Foreign Military Sales customers.
The high-velocity PAC-3 interceptor can defend against
incoming threats, including tactical ballistic missiles,
cruise missiles, and aircraft. During flight testing in
July, our PAC-3 MSE missile successfully intercepted
an air-breathing threat (ABT), representing fixed-wing
aircraft and cruise missiles. This test set the record for
intercepting an ABT with a PAC-3 MSE and reconfirmed
the system’s effectiveness in addressing dangers around
the world.
Lockheed Martin Corporation IV
We welcomed Poland and Sweden as our newest
international customers to procure PAC-3 MSE. To
date, 13 nations have chosen PAC-3 and PAC-3 MSE to
provide missile-defense capabilities.
Missiles and Fire Control marked other significant
milestones in 2018. We delivered the 2,500th Joint
Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM). And for the
first time, JASSM was successfully used in combat
when deployed from the USAF B-1B in operations
over Syria. In addition, our Joint Air-to-Ground Missile
(JAGM) program achieved a critical milestone with the
Department of Defense clearing the way for the missiles
to enter low-rate production.
Rotary and Mission Systems
In 2018, our Rotary and Mission Systems business area
leveraged its broad capabilities and technologies to
solve a wide range of customers’ challenges around
the world.
In January, we signed a contract with Australia to
design, build, and integrate the combat system for their
Future Submarine. The contract gives our corporation
a key role in the largest defense capital investment
program in Australia’s history, and further deepens our
relationship with this important customer.
Training, logistics, and sustainment has long been an
area of expertise at Rotary and Mission Systems. Our
leadership in this area was reinforced in March when
the U.S. Army awarded us the Army Training Aids,
Devices, Simulators and Simulations Maintenance
Program (ATMP). Under this seven-year, $3.53 billion
contract, we will sustain more than 300,000 Training
Aids, Devices, Simulators and Simulations (TADSS),
including live-fire ranges and instrumentation systems
fielded around the globe.
The Japan Ministry of Defense selected Lockheed
Martin’s Solid-State Radar for their two Aegis Ashore
ballistic missile defense systems in July. Aegis Ashore
will provide Japan with the advanced capabilities it
needs to bolster its layered defenses against current
and future threats.
Another significant achievement took place in October
when the government of Canada selected Lockheed
Martin as the preferred bidder to provide the design
for the Royal Canadian Navy’s future Canadian Surface
Combatant. Our team has put forward a design that
is tailored to meet Canada’s needs, by performing a
variety of missions, with enhanced survivability and
flexibility for future modernization.
In our Sikorsky line of business, we continue to
deliver innovative rotorcraft technologies that our
customers depend on to carry out critical missions. We
reached important milestones in the CH-53K heavylift helicopter and VH-92A presidential helicopter
programs. And our Black Hawk program continued to
find opportunities overseas, even as the helicopter
celebrated its 40th anniversary as a workhorse for the
U.S. military.
Leadership in Military and Civil Space
Our Space business area continues to support our
customers’ vital missions to protect their citizens, enable
global commerce, and advance scientific discovery.
In September, the U.S. Air Force selected Lockheed
Martin to build up to 22 next-generation Global
Positioning System III (GPS III) satellites for up to $7.2
billion. The corporation is already producing 10 GPS III
satellites for the Air Force. With the follow-on contract,
the additional satellites, known as GPS IIIF, will provide
increased accuracy, flexibility, and resiliency for military
and civilian users around the globe.
The Air Force also entrusted Lockheed Martin as
the prime contractor for a new missile warning
satellite system known as Next Generation Overhead
Persistent Infrared (Next Gen OPIR). Next Gen OPIR
will succeed the Lockheed Martin-built Space Based
Infrared System (SBIRS) by providing improved missile
warning capabilities that are more survivable and
resilient against emerging threats. The Air Force
implemented Next Gen OPIR as part of their “Go
Fast” rapid acquisition program, which is focused on
quickly fielding new capabilities to maintain America’s
technological advantage over its adversaries.
2018 was also a milestone year for our deep
space exploration programs. NASA’s OSIRIS-REx
spacecraft (Origins, Spectral Interpretation, Resource
Identification-Regolith Explorer) began orbiting the
asteroid Bennu in December, marking the beginning of
a two-year detailed survey that will culminate in the
collection and return of a sample of asteroid material.
The Lockheed Martin-built spacecraft and innovative
sampling system could give scientists insight into the
early formation of our solar system and the origin of
life on earth.
And in November, the world watched with excitement
as NASA’s InSight lander successfully touched down on
the surface of Mars, where its scientific instruments
will be used to take the first-ever in-depth look at the
planet’s interior. This was the fourth time a Lockheed
Martin-built lander successfully touched down on the
Red Planet. 
V 2018 Annual Report
EMBRACING THE INNOVATION
IMPERATIVE
At Lockheed Martin, we view innovation as the lifeblood
of our corporation – and the key to our future success.
In 2018, we strengthened this commitment by using our
outstanding financial performance and the savings from
corporate tax reform to invest in the newest technology,
the latest ventures, and the talent that makes us
exceptional.
Our capital expenditures of $1.3 billion and our
independent research and development spending of
$1.3 billion were both at record levels in 2018. We
are taking bold steps to strengthen our leadership in
innovative areas such as hypersonics, laser weapons
systems, autonomy, and artificial intelligence.
For instance, Lockheed Martin’s leadership in hypersonic
technology was further solidified in April when the U.S.
Air Force awarded our corporation a contract worth up
to $928 million to develop a Hypersonic Conventional
Strike Weapon – a new air-launched missile that will
travel more than five times faster than the speed
of sound to overcome enemy defenses. While the
development program will be led by our Space business
area, the team includes experts from across the company
and fully leverages our broad portfolio to provide our
customer with this critical capability.
At Missiles and Fire Control, we are also working
to design a second hypersonic weapon prototype
for the U.S. Air Force. Under a contract, for up to
$480 million, we will provide the Air Force with the
critical design review, test, and production readiness
support for the new Air-Launched Rapid Response
Weapon.
At Rotary and Mission Systems, we contracted with the
U.S. Navy to develop, manufacture, and deliver highpower laser weapon systems for the HELIOS program
(High Energy Laser with Integrated Optical-dazzler and
Surveillance). Lockheed Martin will help the Navy take
a major step forward in its goal to field laser weapon
systems aboard surface ships by 2021.
And our Skunk Works® division at Aeronautics marked
75 years of pioneering the future. In 2018, the Skunk
Works team celebrated multiple contract wins –
including one from NASA to design, build, and test a
full-scale supersonic technology demonstrator, the
X-59 QueSST, designed to quiet the sonic boom. The
X-plane will be used to help establish an acceptable
noise standard that could make over-land supersonic
passenger air travel a reality.
THE CORE VALUES THAT
DRIVE US
From nearly every perspective, 2018 was a year of
outstanding performance by our company.
Our successes across the corporation flow from the
talent of our approximately 105,000 men and women
around the world, their sense of mission, and their
commitment to uphold our core values to do what’s
right, respect others, and perform with excellence.
As we look to the future, we can see tremendous need
for the products and systems Lockheed Martin provides
in every domain – on land, at sea, in the air, in space,
and in the cyber realm.
We can also be confident that as threats and challenges
evolve, the people and innovations of Lockheed Martin
will help ensure our customers are well-positioned to
meet them. Together, we have proven we can protect
life, advance scientific discovery, and deliver the safety
and security that enable progress for all.
*This letter includes references to segment operating profit and segment margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures. For
reconciliations between our non-GAAP measures and the nearest GAAP measures, please refer to the page preceding the back cover of
this Annual Report. As non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial
measures, you should carefully read the Form 10-K included in this Annual Report, which includes our consolidated financial statements
prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, this letter includes statements that, to the extent they are not recitations of historical
fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and are based on Lockheed Martin’s current
expectations and assumptions. For a discussion identifying important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those
anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the corporation’s filings with the SEC, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Risk Factors” in the Form 10-K portion of this Annual Report.
Marillyn A. Hewson
Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer