Lowe’s is a strong consumer brand with solid cash flows and a healthy
balance sheet. We are well positioned in a nearly $900 billion home
improvement sector that is large and growing, but also very fragmented,
representing a great opportunity to grow market share. Our 300,000
associates are resilient and committed to serving our customers and
our communities. They are our greatest asset.
In 2018, we delivered solid results, with total sales growth of 3.9 percent driven by
comparable sales growth of 2.4 percent. Diluted earnings per share were $2.84, while
adjusted diluted earnings per share1
 grew 16.4 percent to $5.11. We generated over
$5.0 billion in free cash flow and through a combination of both dividends and share
repurchases, we returned approximately $4.5 billion to our shareholders.
We believe we can deliver even stronger results going forward by focusing on retail
fundamentals. To maximize value for our shareholders and deliver an outstanding
experience for our customers, we will stay true to our new mission statement: Together,
deliver the right home improvement products, with the best service and value, across
every channel and community we serve. This mission statement defines what we will
stand for each and every day as a company.
Fiscal 2018 was a rebalancing year in which we took the necessary steps to begin building a sustainable foundation from which to drive long-term value creation. During the
year, we realigned leadership to improve our focus, execution and decision making.
We assembled a talented team with extensive retail and technical experience who will
facilitate the creation of a seamless omni-channel environment.
We also completed a strategic reassessment which included realigning our portfolio to
improve our focus and eliminate underperforming and non-core assets. And, we rationalized store inventory in the U.S. and Canada to eliminate clutter and allow for investments
in job lot quantities for the Pro and an increased depth of high-velocity SKU’s.
We established a go-forward strategy focused on driving operational excellence and
better serving our customers. We will achieve this by winning in four key areas:
» Merchandising excellence;
» Supply chain transformation;
» Operational efficiency; and
» Customer engagement
We are committed to delivering merchandising excellence by ensuring we have the
right products, in the right place, at the right time. The implementation of a category
management process will prioritize resources and drive better sales productivity, both
in-store and online. We are building out Merchandising Service Teams to help streamline our reset and in-store execution process. These teams will improve our speed to
market, allowing us to roll out new products more quickly and drive market share gains
while also reducing disruption to our stores. We’ll also drive merchandising productivity through the rollout of our field merchandising teams, who will focus on delivering
localized product assortments to better meet the needs of the customer at the market
level, drive customer engagement and improve our sales per square foot.
Our supply chain transformation is focused on improving the omni-channel customer
experience by optimizing the network of assets in our distribution system as well as
the flow of product between those assets to drive topline growth and cost efficiencies.
We are optimizing order management, fulfillment and delivery to ensure that we can
efficiently flow inventory with the required network and capacity to meet our customers’
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
OUR STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS
MERCHANDISING
EXCELLENCE
Having the right products in the
right place at the right time
SUPPLY CHAIN
TRANSFORMATION
Serving customers, the way they
want to be served
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY
Simplifying store operations and
improving in-stock execution
CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT
Improving customer engagement
and fulfilling Pro customer needs;
hiring and developing associates
focused on service and sales
Marvin R. Ellison
President and Chief
Executive Officer 
needs. We are also standing up systems and processes such that by the end of 2019,
we will have better visibility to product coming into the network as well as visibility to
product location as it moves through the network, to improve our in-stock position.
We are also working to drive operational efficiency. By simplifying store operations, we
can provide a better customer experience and unlock profits for the overall enterprise.
We are redesigning processes and systems to ensure better department coverage and
overall customer service, while ensuring a more efficient use of payroll hours. We are
also working diligently to improve in-stock execution to better capitalize on the traffic
we are driving to our stores and Lowes.com.
Intensifying customer engagement is our fourth area of strategic focus. Pro customers
are at the core of this objective as they account for half of the U.S. home improvement
product market yet represent only 20–25 percent of our sales. To win with the Pro, we
are focused on delivering consistent service levels by adding dedicated Pro Department
Supervisors and associates to help Pros load big bulky items. We’re also investing in
job lot quantities to ensure we have the right inventory depth at the store level to meet
Pro customer needs. To advance the overall customer experience, we are improving
associate engagement and equipping our associates with the tools necessary to better
serve customers.
We are also creating a true expense reduction culture and implementing a more rigorous
process for capital approval to improve return on invested capital1
. We believe that our
targeted initiatives designed to drive profitable sales, combined with an expense reduction culture, will allow us to generate significant cash flow from operations. We are
committed to investing in the business while also returning excess cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. And, given our strong cash generation
capabilities and improving outlook for the Company, in December 2018, our Board of
Directors authorized $10 billion in additional share repurchases.
The future for Lowe’s is bright. We have a great opportunity to capitalize on a healthy
home improvement sector and a tremendous brand by focusing on retail fundamentals
and simplifying our business. The expertise, operational discipline and focus of this
leadership team will allow us to successfully execute on our strategies and capitalize
on the opportunity in front of us.
Lastly, I would like to thank our employees for their dedication, resilience and commitment to serving both customers and the communities in which they live and work.
Marvin R. Ellison
President and Chief Executive Officer