If one thing has been constant in MassMutual’s
nearly 168 years, it’s change – embracing it,
adapting to it, and helping our policyowners
and customers succeed throughout it.
In our company’s early years, groundbreaking
innovation meant installing phones and buying
typewriters. Growing our customer base meant
serving New England farmers, steamship workers,
and Gold Rush pioneers headed west. Today,
adapting to change means investing in data
analytics, tapping into global markets, and more.
Yet, while the world continues to shift
dramatically, our pledge to our customers has
stayed the same: to provide stability and security
in a world of change and uncertainty. That
mission is at the heart of what we call Live Mutual:
a vision of a world where stronger ties between
people –from friends and family to coworkers
and even strangers – help us navigate life’s most
difficult moments. In 2018, we were proud to
advance that commitment – and put ourselves in
a stronger position to have a lasting impact on
the lives of the people we serve.
Strong demand for our holistic financial
solutions for both individuals and
institutions drove revenue to a record
$32 billion last year.
A Strong Foundation for the Future
As a mutual company, we measure our progress
not on where our share price ended up for the
year or whether we beat analysts’ estimates.
We measure it on how much closer we are to
helping people build a more confident future.
We did that in 2018 in an environment that was
more volatile than we have seen in some time.
While we continued to benefit from historically
low unemployment, solid wage growth, and
modest inflation pressure, trade wars increased
uncertainty, and slowly rising interest rates helped
roil the markets. Geopolitical developments like
Brexit, shifting diplomacy with North Korea, and
growing populist movements all exacerbated
the uncertainty.
In this increasingly unsettled environment, we
once again provided a measure of certainty and
stability. Strong demand for our holistic financial
solutions for both individuals and institutions drove
revenue to a record $32 billion last year, while
helping to increase the insurance protection we
provide to more than $700 billion, giving people the
security and peace of mind to face life’s
uncertainties. Along the way, we also helped
more than half a million new people on their path
to a more secure financial future, whether it was as
a breadwinner protecting his or her family, a worker
looking to save a few extra dollars for retirement, or
a retiree receiving a pension payment.
Dear Fellow Policyowners and Customers,
These commitments were supported by a
company as financially strong as ever, as we
increased our total adjusted capital to nearly
$20 billion and maintained among the highest
ratings of any company in any industry.1 This
same stability enabled us to approve an estimated
$1.72 billion dividend payout in 2019 to our eligible
participating policyowners – our highest payout
ever and the 151st consecutive year we have
paid a dividend.2
Most importantly, we continued to fulfill our
commitments to you, delivering more than
$5.3 billion in benefits – with real dollars going to
real people. Young adults. Families. Business owners.
Retirees. Nothing makes me prouder than the fact
that we helped so many in 2018 – and laid a strong
foundation to help even more in the years ahead.
Adapting to a Rapidly Changing World
As we operate from this position of strength, we
are constantly assessing what we must do to build
on our success and stay competitive in a rapidly
changing world. In 2018, we continued on our path
to stay nimble, while seizing opportunities to
position us strongly for the long term.
One of our biggest priorities continues to be
responding to the biggest trend reshaping
our world: digital transformation. We are seizing
the opportunities that technology has brought
to make our solutions more affordable and
accessible to more people. 
MassMutual 2018 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report
4 CEO MESSAGE
That’s why we have expanded our use of data
analytics to provide protection in a fraction of
the time, identify better ways to keep
your assets safe, and help you
make the best real-time decisions
about your finances. It’s also why
we are providing our dedicated
network of advisors with digital
capabilities to serve you better,
and are creating a seamless
digital experience for purchasing
insurance – from the time you first
apply to when we deliver a claim.
Yet as we adapt to immediate trends, we
have also taken steps to maintain our long-term
performance so we can continue investing in our
business and honor our commitments decades
from now. As such, we have begun to evolve our
approach to what have long been our key strategic
differentiators – our international insurance and
asset management businesses – by finding
successful and innovative partners to help
maximize their value.
The 2018 sale of our majority interest in MassMutual
Japan to Nippon Life and sale of MassMutual Asia to
Yunfeng Financial Group and several
Asia-based investors are primary
examples. Both transactions
enable us to benefit from
maintaining an ongoing
interest in strongly positioned
entities, as well as through
potential strategic partnerships
that will yield additional
opportunities over time. We
expect to reap similar advantages
with our transaction announced last
October, in which OppenheimerFunds,
Inc., our retail asset management affiliate, will
combine with Invesco Ltd., to form one of the largest
asset management firms in the world. Expected to
close in 2019, the transaction will give us the
largest ownership stake in the combined firm,
 with expanded global scale, greater diversity
of offerings, and additional capital that will
 increase our financial strength.
Overall, these transactions will help us
maximize our investments in these
businesses, which have delivered strong
results across various market cycles and
provided excellent value to our policyowners.
Moves like these – and the
 opportunities they bring – are why I’m
so confident in MassMutual’s future. Still,
one thing makes me most confident of
all: our people. We’ve always known
our strategy would only work if our
people are empowered to do their best.
So our approach is founded on one key
principle: people who are at their best in
life are at their best at work.
From fostering diversity and inclusion to
advancing continuous improvement and
learning, we are putting our employees in the
best position to succeed. We did this in 2018 by
modernizing and expanding our benefits to give
our employees greater choice and flexibility,
as well as announcing plans to expand our
presence in our home state – recommitting
to the city we have called home since our
founding and establishing a new Boston
campus. This will create an overall
environment that fosters greater
collaboration and innovation for
generations to come.
And finally, investments like this are not just
limited to our workforce and workplace – they
extend to our communities as well. We achieved
major milestones on the way to improving the
places where we live and work, from reaching
More than
in benefits to our
customers
$5B
Nearly
total adjusted
capital
$20B
consecutive dividend
payout in 2019
151st
more than a million students with financial and
life lessons through our FutureSmart program to
giving away more than $700 million in insurance
protection through our LifeBridge program.3 Our
ongoing work through these programs is helping
us build communities where everyone has the
opportunity to flourish.
A Live Mutual Future
Taken together, our ongoing progress puts us in
a strong position to continue what has driven
us since the beginning: helping people
secure their future and protect the
ones they love.
When I look back on the 168
years since MassMutual was
founded, I take great pride in
knowing this purpose has always
been at the heart of how we see
the world and our place in it.
I am proud of the investments we have
 made in 2018 to help make living mutually a
reality for our policyowners and customers, and
incredibly excited for what we will accomplish in
the new year and beyond.
Thank you for being part of the MassMutual
community. We look forward to working with you
to advance a future where we can all Live Mutual –
this year and for many years to come.
Sincerely,
Roger W. Crandall
Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 