Dear Shareholder:
McKesson’s mission of delivering better health is what drives our 78,000+ employees each and every day. Through
our work with partners across the healthcare ecosystem, we play an integral role in helping people live healthier, more
productive lives.
In Fiscal 2018, our Company delivered solid performance across many of our businesses. Despite some industry-wide
headwinds, we produced strong returns and invested to enhance our ability to deliver value to our manufacturing
partners, our customers and patients.
The Company generated revenues of $208.4 billion compared to $198.5 billion in Fiscal 2017 and produced adjusted
earnings of $12.62 per diluted share compared to $12.54 in Fiscal 2017.
Most important, we positioned ourselves to lead in areas of patient-care delivery that present powerful new growth
opportunities. Our recently announced Multi-Year Strategic Growth Initiative articulates a clear path for McKesson in
areas such as specialty pharmaceuticals and manufacturer services, which are poised for the next significant wave of
healthcare innovation.
We are also streamlining our Company with a focus on improving our cost position and agility. Every major function
has set a three-year path driven by recent reorganizations to accomplish a new, more focused and efficient company.
We believe this initiative will produce accelerated long-term growth for shareholders while improving our overall
business performance and enabling us to deliver more value to our partners and customers. The healthcare industry
continues to evolve, and McKesson is more focused and growth-driven than ever. Our future and promise as a leader
in healthcare is outstanding.
Pivoting to the Patient
Throughout our history, McKesson has constantly evolved in response to changing customer needs and market dynamics.
Over the past decade, we have focused on rapidly expanding segments of healthcare, while directing our businesses
toward higher-margin offerings within areas where we provide the most value.
Our new Multi-Year Strategic Growth Initiative reflects our vision of healthcare’s future and the leadership role we can
play in helping patients get the pharmaceutical treatments and care they need, while our partners and customers along
the supply chain benefit from our insights and collaboration.
In simple terms, our strategic growth initiative is about expanding the value we create throughout the supply chain to
improve patient care and drive incremental long-term earnings growth. To that end, we are sharpening our focus on our
core distribution businesses and honing in on the following priorities:
• Expanding our value proposition to manufacturers
• Enhancing our solutions to support the specialty drug pipeline
• Evolving the current retail pharmacy model to expand the role of the pharmacist as a provider of care through an
 omnichannel experience
• Leveraging sophisticated data and analytics capabilities to support our customers, partners and patients
In addition to pursuing these specific opportunities, we have begun to streamline processes, lower costs, create more
efficiencies and better align our operations. The savings will be largely reinvested to support our growth objectives.
Enhancing Value for Our Partners
Fundamentally, McKesson has always been a wholesaler, serving as a conduit between the pharmaceutical innovations
and the needs of care providers. Ultimately, we help patients get the treatment and care they need.
Adjusted
earnings per
diluted share
$208
billion
Total revenues
$12.62 
Our job at the center of that supply chain has been to be world class and highly efficient in delivering competitive
pricing at scale while expanding our value upstream and downstream through technology, services, data and analytics
and solutions.
Upstream, the complexity of bringing products to market requires an integrated approach, which we are uniquely
able to provide. For example, to launch a new therapy, today’s biopharma companies must prove clinical effectiveness,
establish reasonable reimbursement terms with payers, form relationships with prescribers, find the right patients
and prove successful outcomes with patients. Our solutions support manufacturers in getting their products to market
more quickly and providing them with evidence of effectiveness while ensuring patients can access innovative therapies
and helping them adhere to those therapies long term.
Our US Oncology Network illustrates the crucial role we play. Over 30% of new, approved oncology drugs have gone
through our clinical trials. We are the only organization through which manufacturers can apply their specialty therapies
to the patient populations that need them most, while participating in a data-based feedback loop that helps physicians,
patients and manufacturers continue to improve efficacy, adherence and outcomes.
We have made a number of strategic moves over the past 12 to 24 months to build value with our manufacturer partners.
These investments have brought new services and solutions that, when combined with our existing offerings, make us
a stronger partner for both our pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturer partners and our customers.
The addition of RxCrossroads, as an example, greatly enhances our commercialization solutions for manufacturers
of branded, specialty, generic and biosimilar drugs. And BDI Pharma complements our offerings in alternative side
channels and provides support to our manufacturer partners with increased scale and customer penetration.
We’ve also been strategic in the ways we collaborate to help create more value for our partners and our shareholders.
ClarusONE, our generic sourcing joint venture with Walmart, is a terrific example of this innovative approach to the
changing dynamics in healthcare. We’ve been extremely pleased with the business’s overall performance this year while
contracting with a diverse range of manufacturers. This has benefited all our customers who purchase generics through
us, helping them be more successful in a competitive and dynamic market.
Helping Create Better Health for Patients
We support our customers’ patient care in a variety of settings — in emergency rooms, ambulatory centers, clinics and
pharmacies. We have our own retail pharmacies and affiliated oncology practices. And we offer practice management
solutions to make care providers more efficient and help create the best care experience and outcome for the patient.
Our acquisition of intraFUSION, a provider of management services for physician office infusion centers, is another
example of how we’re deploying our capital to strengthen our core businesses. IntraFUSION broadens our offerings to
community-based physician practices.
We also have a significant footprint in retail pharmacy, with more than 16,000 owned and banner pharmacies in North
America and Europe. Patients today seek the convenience of receiving care in a way that suits them, whether online
or in person. Increasingly, they will look to pharmacies for healthcare services they once sought from physicians, such
as diabetes or hypertension management.
Our vision is to build a single platform for this omnichannel care experience so that customers can use our services
to receive pharmaceutical deliveries at home, pick them up at a store, do research online or consult with a pharmacist
in person. With our recent acquisition of Well.ca, we have strengthened our e-commerce capabilities to provide an
omnichannel presence for customers.
Our strategic growth initiative is about expanding the
value we create throughout the supply chain to improve patient
“
care and drive incremental long-term earnings growth. ”
And our suite of retail pharmacy services is broad. We connect patients digitally with pharmacists to provide medication
education, treatment protocols and medication scheduling reminders, driving adherence across our global retail footprint.
Through RelayHealth Pharmacy, we also collect data and provide analytics that help retail pharmacists manage
individual patients, drive adherence and deliver better health outcomes.
Finally, our Medical-Surgical business continues to be one of the fastest-growing businesses in our portfolio, benefiting
from the industry-wide shift to lower sites of care. Our sales representatives have a deep understanding of the needs of
physicians, hospitals and ambulatory clinics, helping our partners improve the services they offer patients.
There is no doubt that the needs of our partners and our customers will continue to evolve as the needs of patients
and the healthcare system overall change. While reduced reimbursements and other economic pressures create challenges
across the industry, we believe that low-cost settings of care are an important part of the solution to improving affordability,
access and patient health.
We will also continue to find new ways to help our customers be more successful — both clinically and financially.
Whether it is through an innovative partnership like ClarusONE or a strategic investment like intraFUSION, we are
focused on what’s ultimately most important: helping deliver better health.
Helping Fight the Opioid Epidemic
We are deeply concerned about the impact the opioid crisis is having on families and communities across the United
States. We have seen it touch the lives of McKesson employees, our family members and neighbors. That’s why we have
focused tremendous energy and resources on helping fight the opioid epidemic.
As a pharmaceutical distributor, we recognize that we operate as one component within the pharmaceutical supply
chain, which also includes drug manufacturers, regulatory bodies like the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA)
and state pharmacy boards, insurance companies, prescribing doctors and dispensing pharmacists.
In response to the epidemic, we have invested millions of dollars to strengthen our anti-diversion program and are
actively supporting a set of solutions that we believe will help prevent diversion and misuse of opioids and other
commonly abused medications.
In partnership with others in the industry, we are committed to developing and deploying tools and resources to help
minimize abuse, combat overprescribing and increase doctor and patient education. In Fiscal 2018, we also committed
$100 million to form a foundation dedicated to combatting the crisis.
We expect the foundation’s focus to be on improving education for patients, caregivers and providers, addressing key
policy issues, and increasing access to life-saving treatments, such as opioid overdose reversal medications.
Within McKesson, we are also embarking on the following critical initiatives:
• A national prescription safety-alert system
We are developing a real-time workflow solution for pharmacists and providers that will flag patients at risk
of opioid abuse or misuse.
• E-prescribing
We are helping to transition customers to e-prescribing of opioids and will stop selling opioids to customers
who cannot process e-prescriptions of controlled substances during 2019.
• Limited dose packaging
We will work with manufacturing partners to develop plans for limited dose packaging to make it easier for
doctors to prescribe and pharmacists to dispense opioids in smaller doses.
• Fast-track distribution of new non-opioid pain medications
We will work with our manufacturing partners to help bring to market non-opioid pain medications as soon
as FDA approval has been secured.
• Pharmacist training on opioid overdose reversal medications
We are providing complimentary training to pharmacists, developed by third-party experts, on how to administer
opioid overdose reversal medications such as naloxone.
We will develop an annual report to track our progress on these initiatives and share our learnings and insights with
the public.
One of McKesson’s primary goals is to help ensure that medicines prescribed by licensed doctors are delivered to
licensed pharmacies so they are available for patients who need them, when they need them and where they need
them. We are committed to being a responsible partner in the fight against prescription drug diversion, while safely
delivering medicine for legitimate use to patients in need.
Our People and Culture
McKesson’s success is built on the foundation of our ICARE shared principles. These values are core to who we are and
help guide our priorities and decisions while reinforcing the highest standards of ethical behavior at every level. In
this environment, our talented and passionate people thrive. They recognize that financial performance and creating
value for our investors are critical parts of our mission, yet our truest measure of accomplishment is based on how
well we meet the needs of our customers, including patients.
McKesson is proud to be ranked #1 as the World’s Most Admired Company in the Healthcare Wholesaler category by
Fortune Magazine, voted among the Best Places to Work for LGBT individuals by HRC Corporate Equality Index, and
recognized as a Military Friendly Employer by Military Friendly.
In our work, we demonstrate our commitment to patients and their families every day and strive to be a great corporate
citizen. McKesson employees logged 25,468 volunteer hours, supported 1,183 organizations, added 2,214 new bone
marrow donors to the national marrow registry, and supported hurricane relief efforts and California wildfire relief
efforts, among many other important causes.
People are inspired by many different things. Most are motivated by more than financial reward. At McKesson, we have
a competitive (and friendly) culture, and our employees enjoy being part of a winning organization. But we also have
a humble sense of service and know that we are privileged to work in an industry that cares for those in need.
A Bold Vision of Our Future
As a shareholder, you should feel confident in the present and future of our Company.
Our array of strategic assets and solutions positions us extremely well against our competitors in every market. Our
operations are highly efficient and we have a strong financial position. Our employees are passionate about what they
do. In our distribution centers, this ethic is articulated by our employees with the saying, “It’s not a package, it’s
a patient.” That powerful slogan reflects a deep understanding within our culture that patients and their families rely
on the work we do. It inspires us to do that work better each day. Our strategic growth initiative will deepen our focus
on patients and drive new growth. It will help us find better ways to work. It will help us improve lives.
The healthcare pipeline that we’ve built over the past 185 years continues to change and grow in innovative and
connective ways. Yet, one principle remains the same: when the patient wins, we all win.
On behalf of our entire Company, thank you for your commitment to McKesson.
John H. Hammergren
Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer,
McKesson Corporation