To My Fellow Shareholders:
This will be my final letter to shareholders as Chairman of MetLife. I would
like to review our 2018 achievements—which were considerable—and also
survey the tremendous transformation our company has undergone over the
past eight years. As I pass the baton to Michel Khalaf as CEO, I am confident
we have laid a solid foundation that will allow MetLife to create significant
value for shareholders, customers, employees and the world at large.
The year 2018 marked a turning point for MetLife. We closed the book on key
challenges and pivoted to the future.
Our long struggle to remain on a level playing field with competitors came
to a successful end when the federal government dropped its appeal of the
court victory rescinding our designation as a systemically important financial
institution (SIFI). We completed the final leg of the spin-off of our U.S. retail
business, the centerpiece of our strategy to become less capital intensive and
interest-rate sensitive. And we created a new group within MetLife focused
on our performance as a sustainable company.
We are in the business of making and keeping promises. For more than
150 years, MetLife has been there for people after life’s most destabilizing
moments, and the management team feels a deep sense of responsibility to
our customers and their families. We are committed to running the company
responsibly and with a long-term perspective so that we can keep our
promises for generations to come.
Sustainability means profits must be tied to purpose. The first half is just as
important as the second. Without profits, a public company will not be able
to fulfill its purpose for very long. I am pleased that MetLife delivered strong
financial performance in 2018. We generated $5 billion of net income and
$5.5 billion of adjusted earnings driven by solid underwriting, good volume
growth, disciplined expense management, and tax reform. We grew adjusted
earnings per share by 37 percent and achieved an adjusted return on equity
of 12.6 percent.i
Strong cash generation helped us return a record $5.7 billion to shareholders
in 2018 through common stock repurchases and dividends. This was well
ahead of our $5 billion target and demonstrates our commitment to being
good stewards of our shareholders’ capital.
Capital is precious, and our goal is always to deploy it to its highest and
best use. When we have opportunities for organic growth or acquisitions
that exceed our cost of equity, we will pursue them—and in fact, MetLife
deployed more than $3 billion toward new business growth in 2018. But when
we do not, we will return excess capital to shareholders, as we should. 
Chairman’s Letter 2
Share buybacks have come under criticism in certain quarters on the
grounds that they are unfair to workers. In politics, the temptation is to set
up diametrically opposed positions—either you’re completely on the side
of workers, or you’re completely on the side of shareholders. The truth is,
you should be for both.
I agree with those who say if you’re not providing for your employees and
just giving back money to your shareholders, that’s not a fair deal. Some have
argued that before you do buybacks, you should pay all workers at least
$15 an hour, offer seven days of paid sick leave, and offer decent pensions
and reliable health benefits. I’m proud that MetLife does all of these things,
and more. In fact, we used a portion of the proceeds of tax reform to improve
the benefits we offer our workers.
But you have to take care of your shareholders as well. They have given you
money to invest for them and their families, and you have an obligation to
provide them a fair return. A lot of middle-income people have their retirement
funds invested in MetLife through mutual funds or other institutional investors.
They benefit when we pay dividends and repurchase shares.
I believe it would be a mistake to let the government start making capital
allocation decisions for companies. Our free-market system has the best track
record of any economic system in allocating capital where it will produce the
greatest wealth for the greatest number of people.
In addition to our strong financial performance, MetLife made good progress
operationally in 2018. We successfully remediated the material weaknesses
associated with our group annuity business in the United States and our
run-off Japan variable annuity business in the MetLife Holdings segment.
Both material weaknesses were lifted as announced in our 10-K.
Our focus since we self-identified and self-reported the group annuity issue
has been to enhance our processes so that we deliver better service to our
customers. Going forward, we will further strengthen our ownership culture
so that employees continue to feel empowered to escalate issues quickly.
This is the best way for us to live up to the high standards we set for
ourselves. Our financial performance is—and should be—tied to the value
we create for our customers and the experience we deliver for them.
MetLife’s Path of Transformation
Since I announced my retirement, I have been asked many times about my
legacy at MetLife. I think of it in two ways. First, I believe I helped de-risk the
company on both the financial and regulatory fronts. And second, I helped
strengthen the company operationally, providing a solid foundation for a new
era of profitable growth.
Eighteen months after I joined the company in 2005 as Chief Investment
Officer, we sold Peter Cooper Village/Stuyvesant Town in Manhattan for
$5.4 billion. While this was regarded as a historic, top-of-the-market asset
sale, it was actually a de-risking move. That one property had risen so much
in value that it represented nearly 50 percent of our entire real estate equity
portfolio, posing concentration risk.
I believe it would be
a mistake to let the
government start
making capital
allocation decisions
for companies.
Chairman’s Letter 3
That same approach to risk guided us as the storm clouds of the financial
crisis began to gather. I am proud that we saw the housing bubble earlier
than most and took action to significantly reduce our holdings of subprime
mortgage-backed securities. We also saw the recession coming in October
of 2007, two months ahead of the official start, and made a decision to sell
down billions of dollars of assets we thought would be most vulnerable in
a downturn.
Our efforts to de-risk MetLife’s asset portfolio helped us come through
the financial crisis in such strong financial shape that we were able to buy
Alico from AIG for $16.4 billion, helping AIG repay U.S. taxpayers and making
MetLife a truly global insurance company.
When I became CEO in May of 2011, I knew our major task would be to
de-risk our liabilities, just as we had de-risked our assets. After going public,
the company had been growing the top line with complicated guarantees
that produced impressive GAAP earnings, but with poor underlying
economics. While we had exited the long-term care business the prior
year largely because some of us in leadership viewed the liabilities as
unhedgeable, we were still selling a number of products that would not
perform well in a lower-for-longer interest-rate environment.
Initially, I thought that exiting universal life with secondary guarantees and
ratcheting down variable annuity sales would get the job done. Eventually,
we realized the best course would be to spin off our U.S. retail business
altogether and create two distinct value propositions for shareholders. Our
goal for MetLife was clear: drive up our return on equity while driving down
our cost of equity. We have made great strides toward this goal. MetLife is
a less volatile company than it was in 2011, with a lower beta, which has
allowed us to deliver returns in excess of our cost of equity capital.
While the decision to separate Brighthouse Financial made strong
economic sense, it was still not easy. The hardest part was the emotional
component. This was our core business dating all the way back to our
founding in 1868, and the decision to separate was the most difficult one
I faced during my tenure.
At the same time as we were de-risking, we were improving MetLife’s
economics by boosting free cash flow and the value of new business written.
We expanded capital-light businesses with high internal rates of return and
shorter payback periods, and we fixed or exited businesses that failed to meet
those criteria. As a result, our ratio of free cash flow to adjusted earnings rose
from 26 percent in 2012 to an average of 66 percent over 2017 and 2018.ii
This stronger free cash flow has enabled MetLife to repurchase more than
$10 billion of common shares over the last five years and increase our common
dividend at an 11.4 percent compound annual growth rate since 2011.
The life insurance business is long term by its nature. We create value for
customers by making promises that can extend for decades, and the profits
from the business we write often emerge slowly. In an environment that is
very short-term focused, this requires discipline and determination.
Sometimes we must make tough decisions that do not maximize near-term
GAAP earnings in favor of doing the right thing for the company over the
Our goal for
MetLife was clear:
drive up our return
on equity while
driving down our
cost of equity.
Chairman’s Letter 4
long run. This is how we have tried to run MetLife over the past eight years,
with a focus on creating value for customers and shareholders over time.
Operationally, MetLife has made tremendous strides as well. When I became
CEO, we faced a number of challenges. Our cost structure was inefficient.
Our customer service was not where it needed to be, and our approach to
technology and digital was status quo. We have reshaped the company on all
three fronts.
On cost, MetLife is now top quartile in tech-spending efficiency among
large insurance peers. This has helped contribute to an overall 140 basis
point improvement in our direct expense ratioiii since 2015. MetLife made a
commitment in 2016 to deliver $800 million in pre-tax margin improvement
by 2020, and we remain on track to do so.
These savings have not come at the expense of needed investments.
Across the enterprise, we have invested in technology to improve the
customer experience. In our U.S. centers, we have improved across all key
metrics over the last six years: Net promoter scores are up by 139 percent;
first-call resolution has increased by 36 percent; customer satisfaction has
improved by 21 percent; and we have received five J.D. Power certifications
for customer service across our call centers.
No less important has been our focus on the future. The threat of disruption
is real, and MetLife has not been standing still. Partnering with Techstars, we
have launched a Digital Innovation Accelerator to identify, mentor, and give
us early access to disruptors in the insurance space. We have also launched
a Global Digital Venture Fund to partner with venture capital firms, pilot best
concepts, and broaden our own thinking. Finally, LumenLab, our innovation
hub in Singapore, is driving a culture of innovation across MetLife with a goal
of reshaping how we engage with customers. In April 2019, LumenLab’s work
on a blockchain-supported product won MetLife a spot on Forbes’ first-ever
Blockchain 50 list.
An Existential Threat
In the midst of all these efforts, we were confronted with a regulatory
risk larger than any MetLife had faced in its history. Because we won our
SIFI suit decisively, it may be hard to remember how ominous the threat
appeared in 2013.
The actions of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) and the
Federal Reserve at the time made two things clear: First, only three out of
more than 800 U.S. life insurers would be labeled SIFIs, and second, the
capital requirements for SIFIs could have been significantly higher than
for other firms. We viewed this as an existential threat that would make it
impossible for MetLife to price many of its products competitively and
lead to the potential breakup of the company into multiple pieces, to the
detriment of customers and shareholders alike.
The Dodd-Frank Act included a provision allowing companies to seek
judicial review of their SIFI designations. No company wants to take the
federal government to court, but this was a path I felt we must pursue for
The threat of
disruption is real,
and MetLife has not
been standing still.
Chairman’s Letter 5
the sake of our customers, employees and shareholders. On the merits, we
felt that FSOC was simply wrong. MetLife did not meet the definition of a
“systemic” financial institution as outlined in Dodd-Frank. We are not that
interconnected with other financial institutions, and our liabilities subject
to a “run on the bank” are nowhere near large enough to destabilize the U.S.
financial system.
In addition, FSOC failed to follow its own rules. It was supposed to assess
MetLife’s vulnerability to “material financial distress.” Instead, it simply
assumed we would fail. These errors of both substance and process
caused the federal district court to deem FSOC’s designation of MetLife
“fatally flawed.”
We were given many warnings against challenging the government—you will
lose; your brand will suffer; you will face retribution. But if anything, because
we took a principled stand and fought for what we knew was right, MetLife
emerged with its reputation enhanced.
I believe it is important for companies to take a public stand and advocate
for policies that are in the best interest of their customers, employees and
shareholders. While the SIFI challenge was our most prominent example, we
also made our views known on taxes, regulation, trade, and monetary policy.
The pro-growth positions we took, many of which became official policy, have
helped fuel the strongest U.S. economy in a decade—and better results for
MetLife, as well. My advice to business leaders is: Don’t abandon the public
square. Your voice is needed to ensure the preservation of a free-market
system that has done a remarkable job of creating wealth and raising living
standards.
Our Noble Purpose
Underpinning everything we do at MetLife is our noble purpose of providing
financial security to tens of millions of people. By pooling risk, investing wisely,
and paying benefits when they are needed most, we create tremendous
positive social impact. All advanced societies have governmental social
insurance. All of them have also preserved private insurance as a vital
component of the financial safety net that helps people deal with life’s risks.
MetLife’s role as a force for good was on display in many ways in 2018:
• We paid approximately $48 billion in claims and benefits to policyholders.
• We fueled jobs and economic growth by investing $589 billion in total
assets under management for policyholders and clients in agriculture,
infrastructure, real estate, and businesses of all kinds.
• MetLife Foundation fulfilled its five-year commitment to provide
$200 million in grants to improve financial inclusion worldwide.
• We were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (North America)
for the third year in a row.
• We were named one of America’s 100 Most JUST Companies by JUST
Capital and Forbes in recognition of our high performance on issues
Americans define as priorities for good corporate behavior.
My advice to
business leaders
is: Don’t abandon
the public square. 
Chairman’s Letter 6
Conclusion
It has been a tremendous honor for me to lead this great company. My goal
was to leave MetLife better than I found it, and I believe that is what we
have done over the past eight years. We’ve divested businesses that were
not meeting our return hurdles, we’ve invested in technology to improve our
operations and the customer experience, and we’ve set the company on a
path to profitable growth.
There are many people I want to thank, including the Board of Directors
for their support, especially during our long SIFI battle. I want to thank the
Executive Group for helping to turn the ship to put us on a better course.
They took our strategy from words on paper to action on the ground. I want
to thank those who worked with me in the Office of the CEO, who made
everything run smoothly.
Most of all, I want to thank MetLife’s employees. Any company’s success
is the sum total of the contributions made by its people. Those of us in
leadership often receive the credit, but it’s those in the trenches who do
the hard work every day. The amount of transformation that has occurred
at MetLife is remarkable, and our employees should take great pride in their
accomplishments.
Finally, on behalf of the entire Board of Directors, I want to express our
confidence that we are leaving the company in great hands. Michel Khalaf
has brought deep knowledge of our industry, an entrepreneurial spirit, and
strong leadership skills to each of the roles he has held during a long and
successful career in the life insurance industry.
Michel shares my pride in the value we create for shareholders, the protection
we provide to our customers, the opportunities we create for our employees,
and the positive impact we make on society. I wish him every success.
Sincerely,
Steven A. Kandarian
Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer
MetLife, Inc.
April 25, 2019