Since our founding more than 90 years ago, we have focused on
being there to support our members. Simply put, you are the reason
we exist. We’re here to help you prepare for the future and help
protect you during life’s twists and turns.
In 2018, we had many opportunities to deliver on those promises.
We helped thousands of our members who were affected by severe
weather and wildfires begin the restoration process. When the
financial markets experienced volatility, we helped our members
stay focused on their long-term goals.
We’re also continuously making service and product enhancements
with you in mind. From buying your first car to preparing for
retirement, we’ll be there. We’re doubling down on our innovation
efforts, anticipating your needs and creating valuable solutions
for you.
What do we mean by innovation? At Nationwide, we define it as
“delighting people by solving their needs in ways they can’t even
imagine.” Think of a product or service you didn’t know you wanted,
but after you used it you couldn’t imagine going back. That is the
type of innovation we’re focused on creating.
All of the advances we’re making are a crucial component of how we
are demonstrating our customer pledge to “extend our caring culture
by anticipating and solving your needs today and in the future.”
Our goal is to deliver what you want, when and how you prefer,
making it even easier for you to choose Nationwide for all of your
financial and protection needs.
Steve Rasmussen
Chief Executive Officer
Nationwide
We’re anticipating and solving
your needs today and in the future
NATION
WIDE 2018 ANNUAL REPORT
5
While our company is changing for the
long term, our heritage and values that put
our customers at the center of everything
we do will always guide us. Thank you for
entrusting Nationwide and our partners
with your critical moments and for being
part of our family.
We’re excited about our future as we
expand and reimagine the types of
protection we can provide you and your
loved ones. Wherever your journey takes
you, we’ll be there.