To our Stockholders:
You are cordially invited to attend the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Oracle Corporation. Our Annual Meeting will be
held on Wednesday, November 14, 2018, at 10:00 a.m., Pacific Time, in the Oracle Conference Center, located at 350 Oracle
Parkway, Redwood City, California.
We describe in detail the actions we expect to take at the Annual Meeting in the attached Notice of 2018 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and proxy statement. We have also made available a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2018. We
encourage you to read the Form 10-K, which includes information on our operations, products and services, as well as our
audited financial statements.
This year, we will again be using the “Notice and Access” method of providing proxy materials to stockholders via the Internet.
We believe that this process provides stockholders with a convenient and quick way to access the proxy materials and vote,
while allowing us to conserve natural resources and reduce the costs of printing and distributing the proxy materials. We will
mail to most of our stockholders a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials containing instructions on how to access our
proxy statement and the Form 10-K and vote electronically via the Internet. This notice will also contain instructions on how to
receive a paper copy of the proxy materials. All stockholders who are not sent a notice will be sent a paper copy of the proxy
materials by mail or an electronic copy of the proxy materials by email. See “Questions and Answers about the Annual Meeting”
beginning on page 67 for more information.
Please use this opportunity to take part in our corporate affairs by voting your shares on the business to come before this
meeting. Whether or not you plan to attend the meeting, please vote electronically via the Internet or by telephone, or, if you
requested paper copies of the proxy materials, please complete, sign, date and return the accompanying proxy card or voting
instruction card in the enclosed postage-paid envelope. See “How Do I Vote?” on page 5 of the proxy statement for more
details. Voting electronically, by telephone or by returning your proxy card does NOT deprive you of your right to attend the
meeting and to vote your shares in person for the matters acted upon at the meeting. If you cannot attend the meeting in
person, we invite you to watch the meeting via webcast by going to www.oracle.com/investor . Sincerely,
Lawrence J. Ellison
Chairman and Chief Technology Officer