As I start my first full year as Chairman and
CEO, I’m excited to lead PepsiCo into the
next chapter of our company’s successful
story, and I feel very fortunate to assume my new
role at such a well-positioned company:
• We compete in attractive and growing categories
with leading brands and a broad product portfolio;
• We have a global footprint with strong positions
in our largest markets;
• We have many capabilities, from brand-building to
route-to-market to research and development that
have been built and strengthened over decades;
• Our associates are passionate about our
business; and
• We have a winning culture and strong sense
of purpose.
Dear Fellow
Shareholders, Ramon Laguarta
PepsiCo Chairman of the Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer
A These traits have enabled PepsiCo to consistently
perform well over the years – both financially and
in the marketplace.
1 2018 full-year reported net revenue increased 1.8%. 2018 full-year reported EPS increased 160%. 2018 full-year net cash provided by operating activities was $9.4 billion.
Organic revenue, core constant currency EPS and free cash flow, excluding certain items, are non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to “Reconciliation of GAAP and
Non-GAAP Information” beginning on page 146 of this Annual Report for definitions and more information about these results, including a reconciliation to the most directly
comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP.
1020141pe_Letter.indd 1 3/7/19 10:09 PM
2018 PepsiCo Annual Report
Mission
Create More Smiles with
Every Sip and Every Bite 
We bring smiles to our consumers – currently
more than 1 billion a day – creating joyful moments
through our delicious, nourishing products and
unique brand experiences
We bring smiles to our customers by being
the best possible partner, driving game-changing
innovation, and delivering a level of growth
unmatched in our industry
We bring smiles to our associates and
communities by creating meaningful opportunities
to work, gain new skills and build successful
careers, and a diverse and inclusive workplace
where people are committed to ethically delivering
top-tier performance
We bring smiles to people around the world
by conserving nature’s precious resources and
fostering a more sustainable planet for our children
and grandchildren
We bring smiles to our shareholders by
delivering top-tier TSR and embracing best-in-class
corporate governance
Since I became CEO in October, my leadership
team and I have been focused on how we can
build on this extremely strong foundation to take
PepsiCo to even greater heights. We looked for
places to improve our strategies and strengthen
our capabilities. We asked how we can be better
organized and work together to drive more
effective execution. And we explored how we can
elevate our sense of purpose to be an even greater
source of inspiration to our associates and all our
other stakeholders.
We emerged from this process filled with
optimism, united behind a new mission: to Create
More Smiles with Every Sip and Every Bite. It’s
our call to action to run our business in a way that
simultaneously satisfies and advances the interests
of our consumers, customers, associates and
communities, planet, and shareholders.
We also united around a new vision that captures
our competitive spirit, intense focus, and shared
values: to Be the Global Leader in Convenient
Foods and Beverages by Winning with Purpose.
We’re energized by both this mission and this vision
because we see a very good organization that can
be great. In particular, we believe we can:
• Accelerate our topline growth in a sustainable way;
• Compete more effectively to win in more of
our markets;
• And more rapidly evolve our capabilities to widen
our advantages versus the competition.
To achieve these aims, we are committing to
becoming Faster, Stronger, and Better.
We’ll become Faster by being more consumercentric and accelerating investment for topline
growth and winning in the marketplace.
Becoming faster means:
• Broadening our product portfolio and packaging
formats to win locally;
• Fortifying our North American business
by investing in Frito-Lay North America
and North America Beverages; and
• Accelerating our international expansion with
a disciplined focus on “right-to-win” markets.
We’ll become Stronger by transforming our
capabilities and culture. Becoming stronger means:
• Driving savings through holistic cost management
to reinvest in the marketplace;
• Developing and scaling the core capabilities
necessary to better understand and meet
new consumer needs, strengthen our brands,
and improve customer service; and
• Building a differentiated organization, talent
base, and culture.
1020141pe_Letter.indd 2 3/7/19 10:09 PM
2018 PepsiCo Annual Report
We’re getting started on this right away. In 2019,
we plan to invest to make our business stronger
in five key areas. We are adding manufacturing
and selling capacity to meet growing consumer
demand; advancing the digitalization of our
processes to become more efficient; increasing
supply-chain speed and flexibility to better serve
our customers’ evolving business models; focusing
our sustainability agenda for greater impact; and
strengthening our brands to make our products
more desirable to our consumers.
And, we’ll become Better by continuing to
integrate our purpose agenda into our business
strategy and doing even more for the planet and
our people. Under my predecessor Indra Nooyi’s
leadership, Performance with Purpose became
a cornerstone of PepsiCo, guiding our strategy
and serving as a point of true differentiation. We
are proud of the progress we have made and
equally excited about the continued evolution of
our purpose agenda. With this in mind, we are
committing to Winning with Purpose, which will
elevate our sustainability agenda.
Leadership Behaviors
Be consumer-centric
Act as owners
Focus and get things done
Voice opinions fearlessly
Raise the bar on talent and diversity
Celebrate success
Act with integrity
Winning with Purpose acknowledges PepsiCo’s
leadership in integrating sustainability with strategy
for more than a decade, and conveys our belief
that sustainability can be an even greater contributor
to our success in the marketplace. Winning with
Purpose aims to build a more sustainable food system
by intensifying our efforts on four critical initiatives:
• Advancing farming practices to optimize
crop yields, protect human rights, improve
farmer livelihoods, and secure supply;
• Replenishing more water than we use in
water-stressed areas, so we can assure
business continuity, while positively
contributing to our communities;
• Creating a circular economy for plastics that
will fundamentally change the way the world
interacts with our products; and
• Increasing the appeal of our portfolio by
reducing added sugars, sodium, and saturated
fats, and adding more positive ingredients.
Faster. Stronger. Better. Our priorities are clear
and your company, from the Board of Directors to
the frontline, is fully committed to achieving them.
We’re moving forward with urgency and a fierce
competitive drive, and we look forward to updating
you on our progress as we write this exciting new
chapter.
Thank you for the confidence you have placed in
us with your investment.
Ramon Laguarta
PepsiCo Chairman of the Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer