Fiscal year 2018 marked an important step
toward our goal of sustained, balanced
top-line growth, bottom-line growth and
cash generation, and leadership levels of
value creation for you, our shareowners.
We finished above the top end of our going-in
guidance range on core earnings per share, we
exceeded our cash targets with another strong
year of value returned to shareowners, and while
we were slightly below our target on sales growth,
we continued to improve market share trends.
We did all of this while facing market contractions,
currency devaluations, transportation disruptions
and trade inventory reductions, as well as rising
commodity and freight costs.
Core earnings per share were $4.22, an 8% increase,
above the high end of our going-in target range.
This includes headwinds from commodity costs
which rose throughout the year, as well as benefits
from the U.S. Tax Act. All-in GAAP earnings per share
were $3.67, a decline of 34% due to a fiscal year
2017 comparison period that includes a substantial
earnings gain from the Beauty Brands divestiture
and one-time non-core charges related to the
U.S. Tax Act in the current year.
We delivered strong free cash flow results, generating
$14.9 billion of operating cash flow. Free cash flow was
$11.2 billion, with adjusted free cash flow productivity
of 104%, well above our target of 90%.
We targeted organic sales growth of 2% to 3% for
the fiscal year. We delivered 1%. Collectively, eight of
our 10 product categories grew organic sales over 3%.
This growth was partially offset by results in Baby
Care and Grooming, both of which were down versus
the prior year.
A number of our large markets had strong organic
sales growth, with China being a bright spot as we
continued our strong turnaround there. In China two
years ago, organic sales were down 5%. We finished
this year up 7%, with accelerated sales growth as the
year progressed?—?6% in the first half and 8% in the
second half, which included 10% organic sales growth
in the fourth quarter. Six of seven categories held
or grew sales, up from one of seven categories two
years ago. This was significant progress in our second
largest market for both sales and profit. In addition,
India delivered double-digit organic sales growth,
while Mexico and Japan both delivered mid-singledigit organic sales growth.
Importantly, we improved market share trends in
seven of our 10 global product categories throughout
the year. In our largest countries, eight of the 15
improved versus the prior year, with fourth quarter
trends better than fiscal year average in 10 of 15.
In the U.S., which accounts for around 40% of sales,
all-outlet value share improved from a decline versus
prior year in fiscal year 2017 to in-line with prior
year in fiscal 2018, improving throughout the year
to overall share growth in the April–June quarter.
Our global e-commerce sales were strong, up
30% for the year, and accounted for nearly $4.5
billion of sales?—?about 7% of our total business.
For perspective, this is roughly the size of our
two largest e-commerce competitors combined.
And we held or built e-commerce value share
in eight of 10 product categories.
Dear Shareowners,
DAVID S. TAYLOR
Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer
* 2017 Advantage Report
All-in sales grew 3%, including a net benefit from
the impacts of foreign exchange, acquisitions
and divestitures.
We continued to dependably generate cash and
return value to you, our shareowners. In total, P&G
returned more than $14 billion of value to shareowners.
We repurchased approximately $7 billion of stock
and paid $7.3 billion in dividends. We increased our
dividend by 4%, marking the 62nd consecutive annual
increase and the 128th consecutive year P&G has paid
a dividend?—?every year since our incorporation in 1890.
In summary, we grew core earnings per share above
our going-in target, we drove cash productivity ahead
of target, we returned cash to shareowners, and we
improved market share trends. We grew sales, but
modestly below our target range. Overall, we made
important progress, but we have room to improve
on all metrics?—?especially on top-line growth.
Going forward, our objective remains consistent and
clear?—?balanced top-line growth, bottom-line growth
and cash generation that consistently delivers total
shareholder return in the top third of our peer group.
We’re confident that we have the right strategy and
plans in place.
However, we’re operating in a very dynamic environment
with changing government policies, geopolitical
uncertainties, retail channel transformation, disruption
of the media ecosystem, rising input costs and foreign
exchange headwinds, and we’re competing against
highly capable multinational and local competitors.
That is why we are accelerating change to meet these
challenges and further improve results. This will enable
us to spot and capitalize on opportunities?—?and identify
and fix issues?—?faster than we ever have in the past.
We will be the disrupters in our industry.
We are doubling down on the strategic choices
we’ve made to win with consumers and create
value for shareowners. We are investing to improve
superiority, our margin of advantage. We are making
P&G ever more productive. We are structuring an
organization and building a culture to lead change
in this dynamic environment.
DRIVING SUPERIORITY
ACROSS CHANNELS
We’re focused on growing where consumers
shop?—?whether that’s in-store or online.
This year, P&G grew organic sales 30% in e-commerce,
the fastest-growing retail channel around the world.
P&G also provides a superior experience in-store.
An independent benchmarking survey* that
measures retailer perceptions of manufacturers
across seven key focus areas ranked P&G #1
for the third year in a row.
ii • The Procter & Gamble Company
Always Discreet Before we launched Discreet in the
U.S., one in three women stated they experienced adult
incontinence, but only one in nine was using a product
designed for her needs. Meaningful superiority is driving
sales growth in Always Discreet adult incontinence
products of more than 25% in fiscal year 2018.
The brand is reaching new record share levels across all
markets and contributing to 11 consecutive quarters of
organic sales growth in P&G’s Feminine Care category.
In the eight markets where we’ve launched Discreet,
category growth has accelerated as much as 50%.
Merck KGaA Acquisition P&G’s acquisition of the Consumer
Health business of Merck KGaA*—?a fast-growing business
that generates about $1 billion in annual sales?—?will offer
consumers a broader range of therapeutic products across
a wider geographic scope and bring significant technical
and commercial capability in-house.
ADULT INCONTINENCE
Adult Incontinence is a large and fast-growing segment?—?
about $3 billion in retail sales and growing in the
high single digits?—?and P&G is leading that growth.
OVER-THE-COUNTER HEALTH CARE
An aging population and an increased consumer
focus on wellness make the personal health care
category very attractive.
DRIVING SUPERIORITY
IN GROWING SEGMENTS
We’re driving superiority in important growing
segments to better meet changing
consumer needs and desires.
Pampers Pure Protection The natural baby care segment
is over 5% of the category and growing double digits.
Pampers Pure Protection diapers, launched in April in the
U.S., are made with no chlorine bleaching, fragrance or
parabens and deliver outstanding dryness and protection.
In tracked retail channels, Pampers Pure is now the #1
selling diaper in the natural diaper segment.
Plant-Based Fabric Care Consumers shouldn’t have to
choose between plant-based and cleaning power. That’s
why we created Tide purclean?—?the first plant-based
laundry detergent with the cleaning power consumers
expect from Tide. We’ve expanded our innovation with
Dreft purtouch, Gain Botanicals and Downy Nature
Blends to offer a full family of plant-based fabric care.
NATURALS
The naturals segment of the consumer market is
projected to grow about 7% annually over the next 5 years.
*Expected to close in fiscal year 2019
The Procter & Gamble Company • iii
iv • The Procter & Gamble Company
Five Measures of
Noticeable Superiority
P&G is creating and extending competitive advantage through
superior product performance, packaging, brand communication,
retail execution, and consumer and customer value.
CONSUMER & CUSTOMER VALUE EQUATIONS
We’re focused on delivering superior value to consumers and
our retailer customers, in each price tier where we compete.
PRODUCTS
Superiority starts with superior products?—?products so good,
consumers recognize the difference.
PACKAGING
These products are delivered in superior packaging?—?
packaging that attracts consumers, conveys the brand
equity and closes the sale.
BRAND COMMUNICATION
Product and packaging benefits need to be communicated
with exceptional brand messaging?—?advertising that makes
you think, talk, laugh, cry, smile, act and, of course, buy.
RETAIL EXECUTION
We work collaboratively with our customers to deliver superior
retail execution?—?in-store with the right store coverage, product
forms, sizes, price points, shelving and merchandising; and online
with the right content, assortment, ratings, reviews, search and 
Explore the noticeable superiority of
SK-II and Downy & Lenor Scent Beads
Sales
SUPERIORITY LEADS TO GROWTH
AND VALUE CREATION
When we excel across these measures of noticeable
superiority, we deliver on key business success metrics:
Where we achieve noticeable superiority on
at least four of the five superiority measures,
we deliver on the business success metrics
80% of the time.
Where we achieve three or fewer superiority
measures, we do not deliver on our desired
business outcomes.
Market Share
Household Penetration
Market Size
Profit
SK-II
SK-II’s superiority has driven sales
growth of over 20% for 15 quarters.
The Prestige Beauty market is
growing high single digits, with
SK-II growing share of the category.
Downy & Lenor
Scent Beads
Scent beads are the fastest-growing
form of fabric enhancers in the Fabric
Care category, growing at a rate of
about 20%, while P&G’s scent beads
are growing about 30%. Downy,
known outside North America as
Lenor, is just one example.
Here are just two examples from our Skin &
Personal Care and Fabric Care categories.
All SK-II products are based on a
proprietary formula with a signature
ingredient, Pitera. SK-II’s bestseller?—
Facial Treatment Essence?—?contains
over 90% Pitera and works to transform
all five dimensions of skin.
Scent beads reset consumer expectations
for scent performance and experience.
The form is fun, engaging and simple to
use?—?just toss in the washer and enjoy
12 weeks of freshness from wash until
wear. Scent beads are driving U.S. fabric
enhancer category growth of mid-single
digits in fiscal year 2018.
PRODUCTS
SK-II is presented in prestige packaging
that builds the brand’s equity and
consumer confidence in the product.
Limited-edition packages featuring
artist collaborations are designed to
enhance consumer engagement.
P&G’s distinctive and appealing
scent beads packaging shows off
the product and lets consumers
experience the fragrance benefit
at the store shelf with a squeeze
scent-release.
PACKAGING
In Japan, P&G’s Lenor scent beads
household penetration has increased
by 27 percentage points over the past
12 months, supported by compelling
brand messaging that clearly
communicates the product benefits.
SK-II’s brand-building efforts?—?like the
Change Destiny movement, and bold
Facial Treatment Essence campaigns
like the Bare Skin Project?—?have helped
grow new SK-II users by more than
23% and contributed to 15 consecutive
quarters of sales growth, including more
than 30% growth in fiscal year 2018.
BRAND
COMMUNICATION
This combination of product, package,
communication and retail experience
delivers consumer delight that
supports SK-II’s premium position.
In the markets where SK-II is present,
the brand is tied for the #1 position
in super-premium skin care.
CONSUMER & CUSTOMER
VALUE EQUATIONS
Consumers see the value and there is
tremendous upside. Global scent beads
household penetration is only about 15%
and beads are used in only about 8%
of laundry loads.
RETAIL
EXECUTION
At SK-II counters, a beauty consultant
personalizes the skin care experience
with state-of-the-art skin analysis. SK-II
creates immersive retail experiences
like the Future X Smart Store, enhanced
by facial recognition and AI. Digital
analytics support a meaningful
consumer connection, contributing
to SK-II’s strong online share of 20%.
When we showcase a Fabric Care
product regimen at shelf and online
with our “Better Together” product
lineup, category growth is 1–2 percentage
points ahead of the average, driven by
consumers adding fabric enhancers like
scent beads to their shopping baskets. 
DRIVING SUPERIORITY
ACROSS AGE GROUPS
Millennials are more likely to prefer and purchase
familiar brands and do much of their shopping
online. This year, we held or grew share in
eight of our 10 categories in e-commerce.
50+ Consumers By 2030 there
will be over 2 billion consumers aged 50+,
representing half of all consumer spending
and a significant growth opportunity.
Accelerating Noticeable
Brand Superiority
Our basis for competitive advantage is meaningful
and noticeable superiority in all elements of our
consumer proposition?—?products, packaging,
brand communication, retail execution (in-store
and online) and superior value?—?in each price tier
where we compete.
Superiority starts with superior products?—?products
so good, consumers easily recognize the difference.
Superior products are delivered in superior packages?—
packaging that attracts consumers, conveys the
brand equity and closes the sale. Superior product
and packaging benefits need to be communicated
with exceptional advertising that engages consumers.
Superior retail execution in-store means having the
right store coverage, product forms, sizes, price points,
shelving and merchandising execution. Online, it
means having the right content, assortment, ratings,
reviews, search and subscription offerings. The last
element is superior consumer and customer value
equations. For consumers, this means the value of the
total proposition?—?product, package, communication,
retail execution and price. For customers, it includes
margin, penny profit, trip generation, basket size
and category growth.
Superiority builds brand relevance across age groups.
At least 17 of P&G’s top 20 U.S. brands are #1 or #2 in
market share in any age group, including millennials
and the 50+ consumer.
PRODUCTS
The data shows that superiority drives our business,
but no single element is a magic bullet. It’s the
combination across all elements that creates winning
brands. Where we achieve superiority on at least
four of the five elements, we deliver on all measures
of business success 80% of the time?—?growing
household penetration (more households using
our brands in a given year), growing the market,
and growing market share, sales and profit. Where
we achieve just three or fewer of the elements
of superiority, we do not deliver our desired
business outcomes.
When we get this model in place, we drive growth.
There are quite a few examples of where this is
happening, including our Fabric Care business
in the U.S., Japan and several markets in Europe;
our Feminine Care business in North America,
China and Europe; SK-II; Olay in China; and Fairy and
Dawn hand dishwashing liquids in many markets.
Delivering accelerated organic sales growth requires
superiority in our current core business?—?in each
key price tier, in each key product form, in our
largest and fastest-growing markets, and in all trade
channels where consumers shop for our products.
It also requires that we deliver superiority in
emerging consumer benefit areas, like naturals
and sustainable products. We’re improving in each
of these areas, and we are selectively enhancing our
portfolio through acquisitions, as we are doing in the
Personal Health Care category with the acquisition
of Merck KGaA’s Consumer Health business, which
is expected to close during fiscal year 2019.
We’re making good progress, but we face highly
capable competitors who continue to innovate.
We will continue to invest to address these
challenges and extend our product and package
advantages, superior execution and consumer
and customer value propositions.
We’ve invented a breakthrough
technology with the capacity to
revolutionize the plastics recycling
industry. It separates color, odor and
other contaminants from recycled
polypropylene plastic to purify it into
nearly-new quality resin. We are scaling
up this process with PureCycle Technologies and look
for it to unlock the potential for billions of pounds of
high-quality recycled plastic to replace virgin materials
for P&G and many other companies.
PACKAGING
LEVERAGING LEAN
INNOVATION PRINCIPLES
Pampers Pure diapers in the
U.S. reached the market in 18
months?—?about half the time
of a typical rollout in the very
capital-intensive diaper market.
We brought Pantene Micellar
Shampoo to market in four
months, less than one-third
the time usually required for
a new shampoo launch.
Development of both products
was accelerated by partnerships?—?
co-designing with retailers and
working with suppliers to create
the materials needed.
Air Assist packaging designed for
e-commerce shipping of liquids
delivers significantly better in-use
experience and reduces plastic
by 50%?—?and we’ve just started
licensing the technology.
This Swiffer Duster package
can be shipped directly from
e-retailers with no additional
outer box, reducing complexity,
offering greater sustainability
and lowering packaging cost.
SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES
We’re innovating faster and more cost effectively
using lean innovation principles.
The Procter & Gamble Company • vii 
Delivering Productivity
to Fuel Investments
We will continue to drive productivity improvement
to fund investments in superiority, improve our
industry-leading margins and generate cash.
We successfully completed a $10 billion productivity
program in fiscal 2016, and we are approaching the
midpoint of our second five-year productivity program,
on track to deliver another $10 billion. We are driving
cost savings and efficiency improvement in all facets
of the business.
We’re dramatically transforming our supply chain.
Over the past few years, we have made major
investments into the supply chain to ensure it
remains a competitive advantage for P&G.
We’re driving down cost and inventory with our
Supply Network Transformation. We’re making
progress toward our vision of synchronizing the supply
chain with real-time point-of-sales data, with consumer
purchases triggering updates to our manufacturing
schedules in plants and orders of materials to suppliers.
Our six new mixing centers in North America are
enabling faster customer response times and
optimized, mixed-product loads to improve
customer service levels.
We’re also taking steps to reinvent the media supply
chain and how our brands work with agencies, and
we’re pioneering new approaches to continually
improve our brand building.
DELIVERING PRODUCTIVITY
ACROSS THE P&G SUPPLY CHAIN
Multi-Category
Manufacturing Sites
• Plants supply several
categories vs. only one
• Production on demand
• Automated loading and
unloading enables lower
inventory
• Savings from robotics
and digitization
• Globally scalable technology
Digitized Planning
• Globally, eight planning
sites vs. 300 sites eight
years ago
• We can now support a new
request from a customer for
an incremental order in less
than one hour, which once
required 24 hours or more
Multi-Category
Manufacturing Sites
Supplier
Integration
Digitized
Planning
Customer
Collaboration
viii • The Procter & Gamble Company
We’re returning to one-stop agency shops, where
it makes sense, reuniting media and creative. We’re
implementing “fixed and flow” models, reducing the
number of agencies on fixed retainers while flowing
creative resources “in and out” as-needed. These
changes not only reduce the number of agencies
and save money, but lead to better quality, greater
creativity, and faster ad-development cycle times.
We’re using data and technology to move from
wasteful mass marketing to mass one-to-one brand
building. For example, in China where 70% of our media
is digital and 30% of our sales are in e-commerce, we
have one of the largest data management platforms
in the country, which we use for consumer analytics.
We can effectively manage frequency and engage
people when and where it matters. We have saved
30% of digital spending in China, while increasing
digital reach by 60%.
Another area we’re focused on is cash productivity.
An important cash productivity project has been
supply-chain financing, which we continue to expand.
This program is a win both for suppliers and for P&G
and has yielded nearly $5 billion dollars in cash in
the five years we’ve been driving it.
Overall, productivity improvement will be critical to
fund investment for sales and market share growth
while continuing to expand our profit margins.
Supplier Integration
• Co-locating suppliers in
plants reduces truck traffic
and distribution cost
• Increased synchronization
of P&G’s operations with
our suppliers leads to
lower inventory and
other costs
Customer Collaboration
• With new U.S. mixing
centers, 80% of shipments
are within 24 hours of
retailers
• Leads to higher in-stock
levels and lower cost
of goods
DELIVERING PRODUCTIVITY
BY REINVENTING MARKETING
Reinventing agency partnerships
from outsourcing too much of our work
to getting our hands on the keyboard.
Reinventing advertising from
mass clutter to less doing more.
Reinventing media from wasteful mass blasting
to mass reach with one-to-one precision,
enabled by data and technology.
Reinventing brands to be a force for good
and a force for growth?—?people want to know
what brands and companies believe in.
Productivity provides fuel for
innovation and investment to
accelerate and sustain faster
top- and bottom-line growth.
The Procter & Gamble Company • ix
Improving our
Organization and
Culture to Win
We continue to change our organization structure and
culture to position us to win in the changing retail and
competitive landscape. We have more to do, but we are
simplifying the structure and clarifying responsibility
and accountability by tailoring the organization to win
by category and by market. One market where this is
making a difference is in Greater China, which moved
from a decline of 5% in organic sales two years ago to
7% organic sales growth this year behind by-category
programs specifically designed to win in China.
To speed up decision-making, we’re moving more
resources to our business units. This includes a
significant portion of Corporate resources, so they
can be closer to the consumers we serve, with
higher accountability, more agility and greater speed.
In addition, we’re adding sales people in markets
like China and India.
At the same time, we continue to drive more mastery
and depth in each category, to supplement our internal
talent with skilled, experienced external hiring.
We are also strengthening our compensation and
incentive programs. For example, based in part on
shareowner input, we have made changes to ensure
manager compensation better reflects our financial
performance versus external competitive benchmarks.
Recent changes include increasing the percentage of
total compensation at risk, increasing the weighting
more toward category results versus Company results,
widening the payout factors to 0% to 200% of target,
and increasing the number of people participating in
the program?—?better linking rewards to performance.
All these organization and culture changes are
aimed at creating a company that is more agile,
more accountable, more efficient and more
productive?—?designed to win with consumers
at the speed of the market.
Building Citizenship
into Building the
Business
We continue to build Citizenship into how we deliver
our business results. Our aspiration is to be a positive
force for good and for growth across each area of our
Citizenship work: Ethics & Corporate Responsibility,
Community Impact, Diversity & Inclusion, Gender
Equality and Environmental Sustainability.
For example, we’re making good progress on
Environmental Sustainability, already achieving several
goals that we set for 2020. Looking ahead, we have
established broad-reaching Ambition 2030 goals aimed
at enabling positive impacts on the environment while
creating value for consumers and shareowners such
as making all product packaging for our 20 leadership
brands completely recyclable or reusable, cutting
greenhouse gas emissions from our manufacturing
sites in half, and continuing to help stem the flow
of plastic into oceans.
In the area of Community Impact, we continue to
improve communities around the world with programs
like Tide Loads of Hope, which provides laundry services
to those struck by disaster; P&G Children’s Safe Drinking
Water Program, which has provided more than 13 billion
liters of clean drinking water; and our Pampers UNICEF
campaign, which has helped eliminate maternal and
newborn tetanus in 20 countries.
We continue to lead on Diversity & Inclusion and
Gender Equality, because we know more ideas for
growth are realized when diverse people come
together to offer their best performance, and that
economic empowerment for consumers from all
walks of life can lead to market growth. In the last
We’ve made an
important shift to
more performancebased compensation
for our employees.
x • The Procter & Gamble Company
year, we increased representation for women, now at
46% of all P&G managers globally, and we increased
our U.S. representation and workplace satisfaction of
African Ancestry, Hispanic and Asian Pacific American
employees while also making our workplaces and
communities around the world more inclusive for
women, the LGBT+ community and people with
disabilities. And as the world’s largest advertiser,
we are using our broad reach to spark important
conversations that motivate positive change along
racial, ethnic, sexual orientation and identity,
disability and gender lines.
P&G’s commitment to Citizenship is supported by our
Purpose, Values and Principles. They are the foundation
on which this Company was built, and they have been
our guiding force for more than 180 years.
Committed to Win
We continue to raise the bar to improve the lives of
the world’s consumers with consumer-preferred brands
and products and to deliver even stronger results
for you, our shareowners.
In the year ahead, we expect to grow organic sales 2%
to 3%, grow core earnings per share 3% to 8% and deliver
90% or better adjusted free cash flow productivity.
And we expect to pay over $7 billion in dividends and
repurchase up to $5 billion of common shares.
This is another step toward our goal of sustained,
balanced top-line growth, bottom-line growth
and cash generation, which yields operating total
shareholder return in the top third of our peer group.
While the current environment is highly dynamic,
I’m confident in the determination and capability
of P&G people to win in even the most challenging
of circumstances and serve consumers and shoppers
better than anybody else in the world.
It’s through our efforts to extend our margin of
competitive superiority, to drive productivity savings
to fund investments for growth and enhance our
industry-leading margins, and to simplify our
organization structure and increase accountability
that we’ll win with consumers and deliver balanced
top- and bottom-line growth that creates value
over the short, mid- and long term.
DAVID S. TAYLOR
Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer