This year was truly one for the record books, albeit many of the records
we broke were set internally. The spirit of Progressive people is to set
audacious goals, and we find that doing so intensifies our collaboration and
strengthens our relationships as a collective team. That may sound
pedestrian, but it is fundamental to our identity and allows us to consider
the enterprise in its entirety and not as siloed functional areas. This
 isn’t something that we can visibly quantify, but it has worked for over
80 years, and we believe it allows us to balance our achievements with
a strong sense of togetherness with our Core Values as the backdrop.
To that end, in 2018 we achieved the following:
– We moved up one position to become the #3 company in the private
passenger auto market. As we’ve stated time and time again, this
gets us one step closer to achieving our ultimate vision.
– We crossed the $30 billion net premiums written (NPW) threshold after celebrating $20 billion in NPW only a few years earlier.
– We surpassed 20 million total policies in force (PIF) and 13 million
auto PIFs allowing us to be in more homes where we can continue
to grow, especially with the Robinsons (customers with auto +
home). That rate of growth is incredible and could not have been
achieved had we all not been in sync on hiring and training well
in advance of need in order to service these new customers.
– We have continued to mount a full court press on retention and
now serve over 2 million customers who have been with us for a
decade or longer. We do not take this for granted and are acutely
aware that we need to earn their business each and every day.
LETTER
TO SHAREHOLDERS
6
– We now serve over a million Robinsons and see so much
more opportunity to grow in this consumer segment. Having
started at Progressive over 31 years ago, it’s a thrill to see
how we have evolved from our nonstandard roots and are able
to serve every demographic.
– We concluded a multi-year investment in a new policy processing
system, which now manages all auto and special lines policies.
IN A NUTSHELL
We wrapped up the year with a combined ratio (CR) of 90.6
and NPW growth of 20%. The results are extraordinary and
especially solid coming off of two very successful prior years
of profitable growth. We added over $5 billion in NPW in 2018
after adding $3.8 billion in 2017 and $2.8 billion in 2016.
Our Personal Lines CR was 90.3, with NPW growth of 18% and
auto PIF growth of 14%. Both the Agency and Direct channels
contributed to these stellar results. Our special lines products
PIF growth was relatively flat year-over-year, reflecting our
already significant share of this market, specifically with our
motorcycle and boat products.
A significant contributor to our results came from our
Commercial Lines area. We ended 2018 with a CR of 86.7 and
nearly 30% NPW growth and PIF growth just shy of 8%.
While growth was also strong in Property with NPW and PIF
growth of 33% and 32%, respectively, our profit results were
vastly affected by weather and natural catastrophes. Our catastrophe reinsurance program limited our retained losses and
loss adjustment expenses from Hurricane Michael to $60 million.
Unfortunately, our retained catastrophe losses and loss adjustment expenses from hurricanes, hail, winter storms, and the
California wildfires totaled $295 million, accounting for 23 points
of our Property combined ratio of 106.9. We continue to take
rate to get us in line with our profitability target, but this will
take time to earn in, since Property policies have annual terms.
7
9
In addition to rate, we are using underwriting rules and
coverage restrictions to manage our portfolio in high risk areas.
We remain confident that we will course correct, that is if the
elements cooperate.
On the investment side we produced a 2018 total return of 1.2%.
The year was characterized by a return of volatility to the
financial markets after a relatively placid period in the previous
12 months. Our fixed-income portfolio was able to earn 1.5%,
as our relatively shorter interest rate exposure and conservative
asset allocation allowed us to earn a positive return in a period
of rising rates. Following several years of strong returns,
our equity portfolio returned -4.4% in 2018, as domestic equity
markets saw a steep drop in the fourth quarter.
The size of our investment portfolio has grown from $27 billion
at the beginning of the year to over $33 billion at the end of
2018. Even as financial markets may offer us more attractive
investment opportunities than a year ago, our focus on
protecting the balance sheet has not changed. When adding
risk to our investment portfolio, we will continue to pursue
investments that provide a favorable risk-return profile to
Progressive over the long term.
“Working with Progressive employees
from around the country to help our
customers recover from catastrophes
has been the most meaningful experience
of my time at Progressive.”
— C. Grube
We accessed the capital markets twice in 2018 in order to support
the company’s strong operating growth and for other general
corporate purposes. In March, we issued $600 million of 4.20%
30-year senior notes and $500 million of 5.375% cumulative
perpetual preferred stock. We returned to the capital markets
in October to issue $550 million of 4.00% 10-year senior notes.
The combination of internally generated profits and these
external financings will both support our future growth and
allow us to maintain flexibility in our capital allocation decisions.
As in previous years, we bought back enough Progressive
shares to neutralize dilution from equity-based compensation.
We continue to believe the most efficient use of our capital is
to reinvest it into our fast-growing operating business.
We ended 2018 with a Gainshare score of 1.91. This is the best
result since 2004 and the 7th year in a row that the score has
increased. We declared an annual dividend of $2.514 per common
share, based on 2018 results and the formula that we communicated publicly. As previously announced and effective in 2019,
we have revised our dividend policy (details discussed later).
10
As we head into 2019, we will continue to focus on policy or unit
growth, as we often refer to it, while pursuing our goal of earning
at least four cents of underwriting profit. We will watch trends
closely to stay ahead of them and not shock our customers with rate
increases. Meanwhile, our investment team will continue to focus
on their goal of protecting the balance sheet and supporting the
growth of the operating side of Progressive.
LOOKING TO THE HORIZONS
You may recall that in the August 2017 Investor Relations
Webcast, we outlined the three Horizons construct. We believe
that investing concurrently in the near-, mid-, and long-term
future of Progressive will ensure that we create and sustain an
enduring business. Our stance is that when we are executing
on the core business so well, it is exactly the time to devote time,
energy, and dollars to advancing our future business opportunities. We internally refer to this as an “always growing” mindset.
HORIZON ONE (EXECUTE): This has been our focus since the
company was founded in 1937 and, in more recent years, we have
been more surgically focused on growth and gaining a larger
share of both the auto and home markets, as well as creating
more Robinsons. This focus has clearly paid off and we believe
there is much more room for growth, so this will continue to
be an area of concentration.
HORIZON TWO (EXPAND): In this horizon, we are focusing on
adjacencies —building upon our existing capabilities and market
position to offer more products and services to our current and
potential customers. We have made large investments in developing
a business owners policy product, which we expect to launch
this year, as well as offering other coverages for small businesses
that desire to shop directly with Progressive. We’ve made people,
systems, and brand investments and see this as an area where
we can excel and profitably grow. In another sector, we continue
to deepen our relationship with Uber and have gone from 1 state
in 2016 to 4 in 2018 and expect to expand to 13 states in total in
early 2019.
HORIZON THREE (EXPLORE): As I communicated in last year’s letter
to shareholders, in December of 2017, we formed an internal
eleven-person, part-time Strategy Council to take some time to
understand future trends and market shaping forces. The team
focused on opportunities where we can use our skills to define
ideas for future business initiatives and invest in areas where we
believe we can win. In July of 2018, we named Andrew Quigg
our Chief Strategy Officer. He has created a new full-time strategy
team that will concentrate on designing products that solve
unmet consumer needs. We are excited to explore, test, and invest
in this horizon to achieve our goal of always growing. 
MANAGING CAPITAL FOR THE FUTURE
We take great pride in our transparency around communicating
significant changes. Although we provided some detailed Q&A with
our November earnings release, I would like to expand upon our
capital management philosophy and how we plan to use that capital.
At Progressive, effective capital management is an important
component of our financial brand. When considering how to
deploy capital, we have consistently said that we will look first to
invest to support the growth of the current and future earnings
power of Progressive. If we have capital beyond what is needed
to fund growth and innovation, that is, when we have “underleveraged capital,” we will return it to shareholders. We have
historically used three tools to send underleveraged capital back
to our shareholders: an annual dividend, share repurchases,
and special dividends. We believe this approach is a strong
indicator of our thoughtful stewardship of capital.
Many years ago, we articulated a formula for calculating our
annual variable dividend, which considered the business
and investment results. At that time, we had moderate growth
expectations and attractive investment returns and routinely
generated more capital than we needed. Our formulaic variable
dividend, and special dividends when warranted, served us
very well, returning on average about 50% of comprehensive
income annually. Since the inception of the variable dividend
program, we produced an annual return on shareholders’ equity
of 17% and grew our book value just over 100%, which is among
the best in the industry, even after the significant amount of cash
we returned to shareholders over that same time. We are very
proud of these results.
More recently, we have been experiencing faster growth in a very
low-return investment environment, creating a need for more
capital to underpin growth. While our business does not consume
massive capital for property, plant, or equipment, the regulatory
construct and need for contingent capital, due to weather and
other unforeseen circumstances, requires significant capital
reserves. Given our strong growth and outlook, we decided that
it was a good time to take a step back and reassess our dividend
policy, especially given the fact that our business model is
evolving as we think about our long-term growth potential. We
are committed to investing our capital when we have compelling
opportunities to do so and to being flexible and nimble to drive
shareholder value and to attract a broad and diverse set of
shareholders. Given the current business environment, our
opportunities to grow, and our commitment to shareholder value,
we decided to alter our approach to our annual dividend.
It is difficult to forecast the amount of capital that we will need
to invest to pursue the opportunities that will be developed in
all three Horizons and, therefore, we believe that a flexible dividend
policy is appropriate for Progressive. At the same time, we recognize that many of our shareholders and prospective shareholders
value a predictable cash return from their investments. Therefore, 
“When we volunteer as a team in the
community, this is when I feel closest to
my teammates because we’re working
together to benefit others and learning
more about each other at the same time.”
 — W. Shippy
we adopted a new dividend policy that will pay a regular quarterly
dividend, which we expect to be $0.10 per common share through
2019, with the potential for an annual, variable dividend at year end.
The variable component of the dividend will reflect the performance
of the business and the growth and investment opportunities we
see and will be determined by the Board of Directors. While the
old dividend formula was affected by the company’s Gainshare factor,
the new approach will not be so influenced. We found that the
Gainshare factor reflects performance and does not capture growth
and investment opportunities, which had the potential to increase
dividend payouts when it could be advantageous to retain the capital
in the business to support growth. While less formulaic than our
previous variable dividend approach, the new variable dividend
will avoid the binary nature of the current dividend’s payout based
on the restriction of comprehensive income necessarily exceeding
after-tax underwriting income.
We have been pleased with how our variable dividend has complemented our overall capital strategy for the past decade and are
equally excited about the modified dividend policy and the flexibility
it affords us to pursue sustained growth for the benefit of shareholders.
We remain committed to investing our assets to grow our business
and maximize value and, when our growth does not require all of
the capital we have available, to returning underleveraged capital
to shareholders.
11
OUR FOUR CORNERSTONES
On many occasions, we’ve shared the construct we use to
think about having a competitive advantage and we fittingly
named it our four cornerstones. The first three make up the
foundation and reflect who we are (Core Values), why we’re
here (Our Purpose), and where we’re headed (Our Vision).
The last, and where I will provide a few highlights of several of
the investments we’ve made, we refer to as our four Strategic
Pillars (how we’ll get there).
Pillar 1: Progressive people and our culture are
collectively our most powerful source of competitive
advantage.
Sufficiently describing our unique and special culture continues
to elude me. Maybe it’s the pride of knowing that we are making
a difference in each other’s lives and doing our best to be there
for our customers when they need us the most. It might be the
small, subtle gestures that are witnessed so frequently that it
would take a novel to share every kind action that takes place
within and outside our walls. What we do know is that the basis
of our distinct culture starts with our Core Values and we follow
them diligently in order to get great results in the right way.
I often comment about there not being a spreadsheet that I can
reference to prove how incredible our culture is (and you know
we like our spreadsheets). That said, we did receive countless
recognitions from outside sources. I won’t name them all, but
they came in the form of accolades like best company to work
for, best workplace for diversity, best workplace for women,
parents, veterans, and millennials. Lists don’t define us and we
wouldn’t change what we do just to be put on those lists. We do
strongly believe that if you treat people like they want to be
treated and create a workplace where you can feel comfortable
bringing your whole self to work, you tend to get noticed.
Pillar 2: Meeting the broader needs of our customers
throughout their lifetime.
We continued heavy investment in our digital customer service
products in 2018. We recognize that when someone decides to
start a relationship with Progressive, we must support that
relationship with world-class experiences and treatment in all
areas, especially digital. This includes a focus and investment on
a smart, simple, and satisfying digital offering that meets our
customers’ needs wherever, whenever, and however they choose.
As such, we continued a large commitment to revamp our
self-service website experience in conjunction with extending
our mobile app offering. This undertaking included not just
a new web interface, look, and set of features, but also a new
technology stack. With these investments, going forward we’ll
be better positioned to continue advancing in innovative ways,
across all digital touchpoints, in a way that builds stronger and
longer relationships with our customers.
We also leveraged new technologies to meet the evolving expectations of customers and to drive additional expense reduction.
Of note here, we launched our virtual assistant in our mobile app
in November. Leveraging the star of our Superstore marketing
campaign, we dubbed this virtual assistant “Ask Flo.” It allows
customers to get instant support by interacting with an automated
bot in a chat-like interface— with the heart and personality of
our brand as personified by “Flo.”
12
We understand that price is critical to insurance consumers,
so we need to do all we can to lower costs to enable competitive
prices. Of course, this can’t be at the expense of a positive
customer experience. With this in mind, we’ve been able to
find solutions that properly balance lower costs and a great
customer experience.
We’re also heavily experimenting and utilizing artificial intelligence (AI). One example of this is in a new chatbot application
where we use AI to interpret incoming chat requests and provide
automated responses based on the perceived intent of the
customer. In some cases, the response provides answers to the
most commonly asked questions related to that topic, and in
other cases it provides a phone number so that the customer can
contact the group best positioned to address their issue. The
model reduces the effort required to deliver straightforward
answers on simple issues.
Another example of our use of AI is a Progressive-built application we call Docuflash. It uses artificial intelligence to discern
document content to forward incoming documents without
human intervention. Docuflash leverages optical character
recognition (OCR) to “read” incoming documents, classify them
appropriately, and forward them to the appropriate group for
additional work as needed. Eliminating this more rudimentary
work generates expense savings and creates the opportunity for
our people to focus on the more complex tasks of acting on the
incoming documents.
To deliver our ideal customer experience, we also believe it’s
critical to understand and recognize that different customers
have different needs and preferences. In order to personalize at
scale, we have been working on a project to personalize the
renewal experience and give customers a compelling reason to
continue their relationship with Progressive. To that end, we’re
standing up a technology platform that will enable us to test
personalized experiences, deployed in a coordinated fashion
across all of our customer communication channels. Our vision
is to create truly customized journeys, aligned with how each
customer prefers to interact with us.
13
14
“For me, togetherness at Progressive
means enjoying the company of
my team at lunch. We share stories,
laugh a lot, and bond over what
we have in common and value what
we have that is different.”
— M. Falcone
We also introduced new technology into our voice experience
by replacing our legacy touch-tone interactive voice response
(IVR) system with one where our customers can speak naturally
when calling Progressive. Our new experience is easier and
allows more self-service options for customers to interact with
us without a Progressive consultant getting involved. We believe
these advancements allow us to meet customers’ needs by
providing a superior customer experience while giving us an
expense benefit.
Pillar 3: Maintaining a leading brand recognized for
innovative offerings and supported by experiences that
instill confidence.
We designed and released an all-new quoting experience for
and on behalf of our agents to make it easier to support quoting
bundled policies for our customers. Our For Agents Only
(FAO) Portfolio quoting (also referred to as Portfolio), is now
live for all agents appointed to write new business in three states
with plans for future state releases and expectations to share
Portfolio with agents countrywide by mid-2020.
Portfolio offers the following:
 – Less data entry: Portfolio reduces quote time by finding available
customer, vehicle, and property information. In addition,
Portfolio auto-fills customer information across products so
agents can spend less time typing and more time forming
relationships with their customers.
 – The more (products) the merrier: Thanks to Portfolio, FAO can
now support bundled quotes for the first time. When agents
start a quote from the FAO homepage, Portfolio’s product
picker displays all available products, allowing agents to select
multiple products right from the beginning. Supported products—
those that agents can quote and sell within Portfolio — include
auto, special lines, home, condo, and renters.
 – The power of choice: Rather than working directly through
an insurance company’s quoting system, many agents use
comparative rater software to shop multiple companies for their
customers. Agents can easily add products to a rater quote
before completing the sale in Portfolio.
 – It all comes together: The namesake Portfolio page gives
agents and their customers an overview of premium, bundle
savings, and applied discounts. Agents can add or remove a
product with one click, speeding up the sales process.
Our highly recognized brand grants us a venue to clearly
communicate our innovative offerings to our customers and
consumers alike. Few brands have sustained a single icon for
over a decade. Flo is one of the longest-running brand characters,
appearing in over 150 ads that take place in our alternate-reality
“Superstore.” To keep our flagship show fresh, this year we 
introduced Flo’s Squad, her ever-expanding crew of colleagues
who represent our long-lasting commitment to providing impressive service and protection at an affordable price.
In addition to expanding our characters, we also expanded
our messages, in order to more firmly align them with the needs
of our customers. As an example, in new ads like “Fluent in
Insurance,” we promoted our online insurance jargon translator,
Progressive Answers. We doubled the number of media
impressions focused on auto/home bundle messages in 2018,
compared to 2015. And, in partnership with national media
outlets, including “The Today Show,” we more widely publicized
our Keys to Progress® program, which in recent years donated,
on average, 100 refurbished cars per year, to veterans in need.
Creative was not the only area of optimization. We also delivered
some exciting portfolio shopping experiences, including
Progressive HomeQuote Explorer® (HQX) and Progressive
BusinessQuote Explorer® (BQX), leading digital home and
business insurance marketplaces.
Pillar 4: Offering competitive prices driven by industryleading segmentation, claims accuracy, and operational
efficiency.
Our auto policies in force grew over 14%. As we shared with you
during our third quarter webcast, our expanding ability to
segment has accelerated policy growth in recent periods. During
the time frame from 2013 to 2016, it took us 30 months to add a
million auto policies in force. The next million policies took us
15 months with the subsequent million taking only 8 months.
Most recently, we added 1 million policies in force in a mere six
months. We attribute this to our large investments in our product
design focused on segmentation and risk selection (matching
rate to risk).
2003 2006 2009 2012 2015 2018
14M
1 2M
10M
8M
6M
4M
2M
0
110
100
105
95
90
85
80
POLICIES IN FORCE COMBINED RATIO
PERSONAL AUTO
TRAILING 12 COMBINED RATIO
POLICIES IN FORCE
In addition, we continue to evolve our usage-based insurance
segmentation. We introduced, in 10 states, a new algorithm that
adds distracted driving to the other already powerful variables
we track, and we plan to roll it out more broadly in 2019.
Operational efficiency is a key component of our competitive
prices strategy pillar. At 20.4%, our expense ratio is among the
lowest in our industry. A bit more than half of that ratio is
comprised of commissions paid to our agents and advertising
costs, or what we refer to as acquisition costs. We view increasing these acquisition costs as generally requisite to growing
profitably. To grow and ensure the viability of the agency
distribution channel, we pay competitive commissions and we
target aggregate commission at around 10.5% of agency premium.
We’ve grown advertising costs to over $1.4 billion in 2018 and
have done so optimizing incremental spend at the lowest level
possible. We did this not only in digital media but increasingly
in mass media and even down to cost per incremental sale metrics
at the television show and daypart level. We buy the majority of
our media in-house and analyze massive amounts of data, often
in real-time, to ensure very competitive advertising spend.
We also focus on non-acquisition costs as we believe lowering
these costs while still providing great service and a great work
environment allows us to grow faster. We invest in technology
to drive cost out of our processes while improving the customer
and agent experience and allowing for our people to focus on
higher value-added work. Policies in force per FTE (full-time
equivalent) and revenues per FTE are key metrics in driving
towards a lower cost structure and we’ve made great progress
on both of these. Our ultimate metric of underwriting cost
effectiveness is what we call our non-acquisition expense ratio
(NAER). For 2018, we reduced our Personal Lines NAER by 0.7
points to 9.1% and for our Commercial Lines business, we
reduced NAER by 0.8 points to 11.0%. These improvements
allow us to continue to keep our rates competitive and meet or
exceed our profitability targets.
The costs to settle a claim, or loss adjustment expense (LAE),
is balanced along with customer service, work environment,
and settling the claim accurately. We are extremely pleased that
our accuracy performance improved in a year with significant
growth in both claim counts and claim employees, while lowering
the cost to settle our average auto, special lines, and commercial
lines claim features by over 2%. In concert with growing average
premium per policy, this lower cost per claims feature allowed
us to lower our loss adjustment expense ratio by 0.7 points for
the year to 10.2%.
15
16
THAT’S A WRAP
As we put a bow on 2018 and reflect on the numerous
celebrations that took place over the year, it reminded me of
something that Peter B. Lewis always said — make sure to
have fun. We all worked hard and together achieved a tremendous amount on the business front, but along the way we
had a lot of fun, which exemplifies the spirit of Progressive.
We are so thankful for our partners, our agents, and the
customers that motivate us to do better every day. You all have
our commitment that we will work hand in glove to excel as
we sprint into 2019.
I am especially grateful to the over 38 thousand Progressive
people that inspire me daily. The accomplishments that we
collectively achieved this year mean so much more when they
are attained with people you enjoy working with side-by-side.
Thanks for all that you do.
Tricia Griffith
President and Chief Executive Officer