Letter from the Board of Directors
to Our Shareholders
The Board values this opportunity to share our perspectives regarding the work we undertook for our shareholders during 2018.
Our objective is to guide and oversee management in the creation of long-term value through the execution of a sound business
strategy, thoughtful succession planning, a commitment to corporate ethics, careful risk oversight, prudent risk management,
talent development, and creating societal impact. In pursuit of these objectives, we are pleased to share with you an overview of
the Board’s priorities and actions during the year.
BUSINESS STRATEGY
We believe that an optimal and effective board of directors is informed, active and constructively engaged with management,
without undue disruption to the day-to-day business of the Company. Our Board meets regularly to discuss Prudential’s strategic
direction. Our collective skills and experience in the areas of regulation, business operations, risk management and capital
markets, among other areas, enable us to provide critical insights to the Company to help maximize shareholder value. At each
Board meeting and during our annual strategy planning session, we engage with Prudential’s senior leadership in robust
discussions about the Company’s overall strategy, priorities for its businesses, and long-term growth opportunities.
SUCCESSION PLANNING
The Board collaborates with our executive team to cultivate a deep talent bench and plan for senior leadership succession. In
2018, as part of our succession plan, we made changes among the Company’s most visible leadership roles. The appointments
of Charlie Lowrey to succeed John Strangfeld as Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Rob Falzon to succeed Mark Grier as Vice
Chairman, are the culmination of a multiyear, rigorous succession-planning effort by the Board. This structure is modeled in part
after the roles John and Mark established working together over the past decade. We are grateful to John and Mark for their
leadership and the contributions both have made to Prudential. John will be leaving the Board on April 5, 2019, and Mark is
expected to retire from the Company and leave the Board in August 2019. At that time, Rob Falzon will join the Board.
CULTIVATING A STRONG ETHICAL CULTURE
Our Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Committee has direct oversight for the Company’s overall ethical culture and
human rights policy. The Board collaborates with management to establish and communicate the right ethical tone which guides
our conduct and helps protect the Company’s reputation. We know that only by doing business the right way, every day, do we
continue to earn our investors’ and customers’ trust. Our commitment to strong ethical values and doing business the right way is
reflected in Ethisphere Institute’s naming of Prudential as a 2019 World’s Most Ethical Company®. This recognition is bestowed
only on organizations that demonstrate a culture of ethics and transparency at every level.
BOARD RISK OVERSIGHT
The Board sets standards for managing risk and monitoring the management of those risks within the Company. The Risk
Committee is comprised of the chairs of each Board committee, which recognizes the vital role of each committee in risk
oversight and enables the directors to more closely coordinate the Board’s risk oversight function. The Risk Committee has
metrics in place to monitor and review market, insurance, investment, and operational risk. We regularly review the Company’s
risk profile, including its approach to capital management, its operational footprint, and its investment risks and strategies. The
Board considers the breadth of the Company’s risk management framework when approving its strategy and risk tolerance, and
verifies that strategic plans are commensurate with our ability to identify and manage risk.
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
The diversity of experiences, backgrounds and ideas of Prudential’s global employees enables us to develop solutions that
address the financial needs of our customers. Therefore, recruiting, developing and retaining top diverse industry talent is a key
Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and 2019 Proxy Statement | 1
Letter from the Board of Directors
priority for the Company. Talent development is discussed at every Board meeting, and once per year, the Board devotes time to
discuss talent at each business and functional leadership level across the Company. This engagement gives us rich insight into
the Company’s pool of talent and its succession plans.
CREATING POSITIVE SOCIETAL IMPACT
Prudential was founded on the belief that financial security should be attainable by everyone. Delivering business results and
creating societal impact has guided our business model for more than 140 years. By leveraging the full breadth of Prudential’s
business capabilities, the Company harnesses the power of the capital markets to promote economic opportunity and sustainable
growth. To make sure the Company is delivering on its promise of inclusion, the Company has a Corporate Social Responsibility
Oversight Committee. The Committee meets three times per year and is comprised of Board members and Prudential senior
executives.
ENGAGEMENT AND OUTREACH
As a Board, one of our priorities is listening to and considering the views of our shareholders as we make decisions in the
Boardroom. We accomplish this through a robust outreach and engagement program. In 2018, we spoke to investors who
represent a majority of our outstanding shares. Topics discussed included Prudential’s sustainability and social strategy, Board
composition and refreshment, Board leadership structure, succession planning, and our executive compensation program.
YOUR VIEW IS IMPORTANT TO US
We value your support, and we encourage you to share your opinions with us. You can do so by writing to us at the address below.
You can also send an email to the independent directors at independentdirectors@prudential.com or provide feedback on our
executive compensation program via our website at www.prudential.com/executivecomp. If you would like to write to us, you may
do so by addressing your correspondence to Prudential Financial, Inc., Board of Directors, c/o Margaret M. Foran, Chief
Governance Officer, 751 Broad Street, Newark, NJ 07102. We suggest you view short videos from our Lead Independent Director,
Thomas J. Baltimore, and our Audit Committee Chairman, Douglas A. Scovanner, on our website at
www.prudential.com/directorvideos.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC.
Thomas J. Baltimore George Paz
Gilbert Casellas Sandra Pianalto
Mark B. Grier Christine Poon
Martina Hund-Mejean Douglas A. Scovanner
Karl J. Krapek John R. Strangfeld
Peter R. Lighte Michael A. Todman
Charles F. Lowrey