Dear Stockholders and Associates,
Being owners of this great company is a unique opportunity — one that comes with responsibilities to our associates,
our customers and the communities we serve. We believe all these groups make up our Publix family. The
connections we make with those we interact with make a difference. Our goal is to be successful through business
plans that move us forward, growth, innovation and taking care of those who matter the most — our Publix family.
2018 summarized.
In 2018, we achieved sales of $36.1 billion, a 4.4 percent increase over 2017. Net earnings in 2018 were $2.4 billion,
up 3.9 percent from 2017. Earnings per share increased to $3.28 from $3.04 the previous year. Net earnings and
earnings per share were negatively impacted by a new accounting standard that requires us to measure our
investments in equity securities at fair value and recognize the unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair
value in earnings. Net earnings and earnings per share also were positively impacted by the decrease in the federal
statutory income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective in 2018 due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
(Tax Act). Additionally, net earnings and earnings per share for 2017 were positively impacted by a one time
remeasurement of deferred income taxes related to the Tax Act. Without the impact of the new accounting standard
in 2018 and the one time remeasurement of deferred income taxes in 2017, our net earnings for 2018 would have
been $2.5 billion, a 21.8 percent increase compared to $2.1 billion in 2017, and earnings per share for 2018 would
have been $3.47, compared to $2.74 per share in 2017. As of March 1, 2019, our stock price was $42.85 as
compared to $41.40 on March 1, 2018.
We also continued to invest in our stores. In 2018, we opened 51 new stores and closed seven for a net gain of 44.
We also remodeled 146 stores. Because we show our customers how important they are, they give us their loyalty by
continuing to shop with us. That’s why we were ranked No. 88 on the Fortune 100 list. Delivering premier customer
service remains our top priority. We continue to find ways to focus on serving our customers where they are and
where they are going.
Our leaders set the example.
Great leaders help our associates understand expectations, and they understand the value of investing in our
associates and building relationships. Developing our team for tomorrow is a critical part of what we do. I want to
thank our current leaders as they continue to pave the way for those who will follow them.
2
In January of this year, Kevin Murphy was promoted to President. Laurie Douglas assumed additional
responsibilities as Chief Digital Officer. Bob Bechtel was promoted to Vice President of Customer Experience. John
Goff became Miami Division Vice President, and Mike Lester was named Vice President of Distribution. Last year,
Dain Rusk joined our Publix family as Vice President of Pharmacy. And taking on additional responsibilities were
Marcy Benton as Vice President of Human Resources and John Provenzano as Vice President of Public Affairs.
Doug Harris will be promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in May of this year.
As these leaders take on new and expanded responsibilities, we’ve also had officers who are joining our Publix
retirees. They have each been dedicated to serving their associates and customers.
For most of their careers, Casey Suarez, Dale Myers and Jeff Stephens have spent their time developing associates
for the next steps in their careers and perpetuating the Publix culture. Their servant leadership has been evident in
the relationships they’ve built throughout their many years of service. I thank them for their commitment and
dedication to the Publix family.
Managing information is easier.
Most stockholders can now access their Publix stock account information through Publix Stockholder Online (PSO).
You can view your account balance, certificate detail, dividend payment history and tax documents. You can also
sign up for or manage direct deposit for dividends, change your mailing address and manage your online delivery
preferences.
As stockholders, it can be a challenge to keep up with your paper stock certificates. So, last year we made managing
your certificates easier by issuing e-certificates and providing account statements. This has been an industry
standard for some time, and we’re excited to offer this convenience. If you haven’t already exchanged your paper
stock certificates for electronic ones, log in to your PSO account on corporate.publix.com/stock to learn how.
We continue to find ways to help our associates stay up to date on what’s happening at Publix and update their
personal information with Publix. Last year we gave our internal website a new look and feel. Now, our associates
can check their schedules, update information, enroll in benefits, access company news and more — all from their
phones. This is the first step in connecting with our associates on the devices they use every day.
Growth is an investment in our future.
Last year was an exciting year of announcements surrounding growth and new jobs.
In the fall, we opened our new-format GreenWise Market in Tallahassee, Florida, and we announced locations in
Boca Raton, Florida; Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Lakeland, Florida; Lexington, South Carolina; Marietta, Georgia;
Mount Pleasant, South Carolina; Mountain Brook, Alabama; Nocatee (Ponte Vedra Beach), Florida; and Odessa,
Florida. You can continue to look for additional locations at greenwisemarket.com.
In order to help meet our needs as we continue to grow, we plan to build a new distribution center in Greensboro,
North Carolina. Phase one of the project — a refrigerated distribution center — is expected to create 600 new jobs
by 2022 and will support the delivery of grocery products to stores in the Carolinas and Virginia. The refrigerated
distribution center is part of a proposed multiphase project that would create up to 1,000 jobs once it’s complete.
3
With the growth we’ve experienced since moving into our new corporate office in 2002, we have more than
exceeded the building’s capacity. The time has come to expand our corporate office, and as part of this expansion,
we will be adding 700 additional jobs by the end of 2027 to support our store growth. Associates are expected to
begin moving into the expansion at the end of 2020.
Services offer convenience to our customers.
It’s been two years since we launched grocery delivery — offering same-day grocery delivery to our customers
through Instacart. I’m excited to share delivery is available in all of our operating area, including liquor delivery in
Florida. We have also expanded our curbside pickup test to more than 20 stores. You can drive to select stores to
pick up your groceries without leaving your car. Take advantage of either service by going to publix.com/shop or
downloading our Publix Delivery app.
We continue to develop new customer payment options. This year, we began rolling out the ability to pay online
when ordering subs, cakes and platters online for in-store pickup. We are also piloting the ability to pay for your
groceries at the register with the Publix app. You would add a payment option to your Publix account and scan the
QR code to pay for your items and apply any digital services you use like coupons and e-receipts. Mobile pay is a
convenience our customers expect. If you haven’t already, download the Publix app and experience how we’re
helping our customers save time and money.
Last spring, we began offering BayCareAnywhereTM doctors in our pharmacies through a Walk-in Care telehealth
center. The center provides non-urgent medical care for minor medical concerns by connecting you to a boardcertified physician through a video conference system. It’s equipped with a variety of medical tools to help aid
diagnosis, and then, prescriptions can be filled in our pharmacy. These are operated in 20 pharmacies throughout
Hillsborough, Pasco, Pinellas and Polk counties in Florida.
Last year, we began offering a new immunization through our pharmacies — Shingrix, a two-dose vaccine available
to help protect against Shingles.
Recognitions honor our commitment to our Publix family.
We are so passionate about serving our associates, our customers and our communities that industry organizations
have honored us with awards and recognitions. I’ve included some of them below.
• New! Fortune’s Best Big Companies to Work For
• New! Fortune’s Best Workplaces for Parents
• New! Indeed’s Top-Rated Workplaces for Veterans
• Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to Work For in America for 22 consecutive years
• Fortune’s Best Workplaces for Diversity
• Fortune’s Best Workplaces for Women
• Fortune’s Best Workplaces for Millennials
• Fortune’s Best Workplaces for Retail
• Fortune’s Most Admired Companies for 23 consecutive years
• Indeed’s Top-Rated Workplaces
• Market Force’s America’s Favorite Grocery Chains
4
We also spotlighted some of our associates for the amazing work they’ve done. I thank them for setting the
standards we will work to exceed.
• George W. Jenkins Award for Excellence, recognizing five retail managers and one support manager with
Publix’s most prestigious award — Joe Bustamante, Eddie Guzmán, Chris Mesa, Steve Payret, Richard
Reynolds and Ester Santillie.
• President’s Award, recognizing five district managers and one support manager who have dedicated
themselves to maintaining the dignity, value and employment security of their associates — Felix Allen,
Mike Kot, Walter Laird, Chadi Majzoub, Marsha Singh and Donna Toy. And because we were able to
recognize them last month, we also congratulate — Del Cragin, Charles Gainer, Bernie Kelly, Bryan
Lanzilotta, Jamie Laviolette and Jasmin Ovcina.
• Customer Service Excellence Award, recognizing one store in each division that excelled at providing
premier customer service — Store #45, Decatur, Alabama; Store #810, New Port Richey, Florida; Store
#1436, Mobile, Alabama; Store #1494, West Miami, Florida; and Store #1566, Glen Allen, Virginia.
In the face of difficult times, we stand together.
Last year’s hurricane season affected our Publix family in the Carolinas and the Florida Panhandle. Hurricanes
Florence and Michael caused devastation that will take years to rebuild from. To help with recovery, Publix
associates and customers gave more than $1.5 million to American Red Cross (ARC) through our disaster relief
register program. Publix Charities donated $500,000 to ARC and United Way.
We are connecting with the hearts and minds of people everywhere.
Being responsible citizens in our communities is more than a point in our mission statement; it’s part of the fiber of
who we are.
The following associates help set the bar for giving back by being recognized with the Mr. George Community
Service Award — Doug Anglin, Rachel Buchanan, Roderika Curtis, Greta Dupuy, Emily Madak and Kevin Piper.
In April, more than 5,700 associates participated in our fourth annual Publix Serves Day, volunteering at more than
150 local nonprofit organizations whose focus is primarily on the plight of the hungry and homeless. You can see
what we’re doing in the community on social media by following #PublixServes.
Our giving goes beyond an annual Publix Serves Day. Every year we also support several organizations through our
corporate campaign programs. Last year we remained No. 1 in corporate giving nationally for the March of Dimes,
raising more than $7.5 million. We donated $65.3 million to United Way between the $38.7 million from associate
pledges and $26.6 million from the Publix Charities matching gift. We also raised money for Special Olympics
(over $5.9 million) and Children’s Miracle Network (over $5.7 million).
Also in an effort to help alleviate hunger, Publix Charities announced it would donate $5 million to Feeding
America member food banks, schools and other nonprofit organizations focused on alleviating hunger across
Publix’s operating area. Over the past four years, Publix Charities has contributed more than $17 million to
hunger-related programs.
According to the USDA, more than 41 million Americans live in food-insecure households, including nearly
13 million children and 5 million seniors. To help make a difference, we support food banks and agencies in the
Feeding America network through our in-store perishable recovery program. Last year, we added more products
from the meat department and began piloting the expansion of deli products. Since the program started more than
10 years ago, we’ve donated more than 482 million pounds of perishable food, representing more than 400 million
meals.
5
We take care of our people and the planet.
Whether it’s promoting our associate wellness program or planting seedlings in preservation areas, being dedicated
to doing what’s right is part of what we do. If you want to learn more about our efforts, visit publix.com/sustainability.
Building relationships is part of the Publix difference.
Our focus areas and business initiatives all support the concept of developing relationships. What causes our
customers to drive by the competition to shop in our stores? It’s because of the relationships our associates have
developed with their customers. Why do our communities count on our support time and time again? It’s because of
the commitment we’ve shown them in good times and in tough times. Building relationships is critical to our
success, and because we have amazing people who make a difference every time they come to work, I’m excited for
what’s ahead of us.
Thank you for all you do.
Todd Jones
CEO
March 1, 2019