Dear Fellow Shareholders,
Fiscal 2018 was an important year for our company and our 67,000 associates
across the globe. Our acute focus on, and execution of, our customer-first
strategy not only contributed to the successful delivery of our 2016-2018
three-year plan financial objectives, but also built a strong foundation to
help us achieve our current 2018-2020 plan goals.
Financial Performance1
Overall, in fiscal 2018, we saw solid financial performance and are pleased with
our results. Sales grew 6.1% to $58.7 billion, driven by local case growth of
3.6 percent. Gross profit dollar growth outpaced adjusted operating expense
growth, and we grew adjusted operating income by 8.4 percent to $2.5 billion.
Additionally, adjusted diluted earnings per share increased $0.66 to $3.14.
For the 2016-2018 three-year plan, we exceeded all of our stated objectives,
including solid gross profit dollar growth that exceeded adjusted operating
expense growth, which culminated in us delivering $665 million in adjusted
operating income improvement.
Strategic Priorities
We recognize that in order to build upon our recent strong financial
performance, we must continue to evolve our business. In December
2017, we outlined four strategic priorities, which we believe will serve as
the roadmap for additional value creation and acceleration of the current
growth of the company.
1. Enriching the customer experience - Creating the right solutions and services
to help our customers be successful and drive additional customer loyalty
2. Delivering operational excellence - Leveraging our size and scale to increase
levels of productivity across the enterprise
3. Optimizing the business - Structuring our work to bring incremental value
to our customers with a different way of thinking
4. Activating the power of our people - Improving upon our strong performance
culture to enable our 67,000 associates, who help us win in the marketplace
each and every day
At the Heart of Food and Service
At Sysco, living our core values is an integral part of how we do business.
As the industry leader, we are committed to our customers, associates,
communities, suppliers and shareholders, demonstrating our passion and
innovation in every aspect of our business. Developed by using extensive
customer and associate insights, we recently launched our new brand
positioning, “At the Heart of Food and Service,” reinforcing our differentiated
position in the marketplace. It is designed to be an authentic reflection of
the way we do business, living “At the Heart of Food and Service,” delivering
what matters most to our customers and the communities we serve.
People, Products and Planet
We take seriously our obligation to operate in a manner that meets the
needs of our customers today, while producing positive, lasting change.
With the recent announcement of our newly defined 2025 corporate social
responsibility goals, we set a clear path for the future and demonstrate the
company’s continued commitment to care for people, supply products
responsibly and protect the planet.
Looking Forward
We are excited about what we achieved in fiscal 2018 and the successful
delivery of our three-year plan objectives and are encouraged by the solid
fundamentals across our business, which will help propel us forward. Sysco
lives “At the Heart of Food and Service,” with passion and innovation. We
remain committed to meeting and exceeding our customers’ expectations,
while creating value for our shareholders.
In closing, we would like to thank all of our 67,000 associates, who successfully
execute our customer-first strategy each and every day, as well as you, our
shareholders, for your continued support. We look forward to a successful
fiscal 2019.
Jackie Ward
Chairman
Tom Bené
President & CEO