To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Tech Data Corporation
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tech Data Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of January 31, 2019 and
2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders‘ equity, and cash flows, for each of the three fiscal years in the
period ended January 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the
“consolidated financial statements“). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company at January 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended January 31,
2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated March 20, 2019 expressed an unqualified
opinion thereon.
Adoption of New Accounting Standard
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method for recognizing revenue as a result of the adoption of
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), and the amendments in ASUs 2015-14, 2016-08,
2016-10 and 2016-12 effective February 1, 2018, using the full retrospective method.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company‘s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company‘s financial
statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company
in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures
to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.
Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included
evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial
statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company‘s auditor since 2000.
Tampa, Florida
March 20, 2019