To Tyson Foods, Inc. Shareholders:
Notice is hereby given that the Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the “Annual Meeting”) of Tyson Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), will be held at Tyson Foods, Inc., 319 E. Emma Ave., Springdale, Arkansas 72762 on Thursday, February 7, 2019 at 10:00 a.m., Central time, for the following purposes:
1.
To elect the eleven directors named in the accompanying Proxy Statement to the Company’s Board of Directors;
2.
To ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for the fiscal year ending September 28, 2019;
3.
To consider and act upon the two shareholder proposals described in the accompanying Proxy Statement, if properly presented at the Annual Meeting; and
4.
To consider and act upon such other business as may properly come before the Annual Meeting or any adjournments or postponements thereof.
Only shareholders of record at the close of business on December 10, 2018, the record date for the Annual Meeting, will be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual Meeting and any adjournments or postponements thereof. If you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, an admission ticket is required and can be obtained by contacting Tyson Foods Investor Relations via email at ir@tyson.com or by telephone at (479) 290-4524. The Annual Meeting will also be webcast live on the Company’s Investor Relations website at http://ir.tyson.com.
This year we will again take advantage of the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that allow us to furnish our proxy materials over the Internet. As a result, we are sending a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to our shareholders rather than a full paper set of the proxy materials. The Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials contains instructions on how to access our proxy materials on the Internet, as well as instructions on how shareholders may obtain a paper copy of our proxy materials. This process substantially reduces the costs associated with printing and distributing our proxy materials. To make it easier for you to vote, Internet and telephone voting are available. The instructions on the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials or, if you received a paper copy of the proxy materials, the proxy card, describe how to use these convenient services.
 
 
By Order of the Board of Directors
 
 
R. Read Hudson
 
 
Secretary