Dear Fellow Shareowners:


  	 
      	UPS is Strong
Today and
CREATING our
Tomorrow.	
  
 	 	 
It is my pleasure to invite you to join us at UPS’s 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareowners. Since our last Annual Meeting, UPS has continued our sweeping transformation that is touching every part of our business — from leadership and culture to our operations, processes and the way we go to market.
In short, UPS is Strong Today, and CREATING our Tomorrow. We embarked on this transformation from a position of strength, with a commitment to create our own future. UPS has a powerful brand, an exceptional and essential global network, and a broad product and solutions portfolio that is designed to meet the current and emerging needs of our customers. UPS produces strong cash flow, the industry’s highest margins, and a solid balance sheet.

Our transformation is designed to achieve three principal goals: generate high-quality revenue growth; drive efficiencies and cost reductions that will improve our margins; and further develop our talent as we continue to foster a culture of innovation.

The investments we are making in our network, people, technology and products will improve leverage in our global operations – and are creating greater differentiation for UPS in the markets we serve. Our customers will benefit from more flexibility, consistency and visibility in how packages are moved through our network. By enhancing the value we create for our customers, we will generate higher revenue per package, better balance between our business and residential-based volumes and a higher level of earnings growth.

We made substantial progress on the network investment initiatives we first discussed in early 2017. We are implementing technology that is making our network and our company more efficient, more flexible, more resilient, and more anticipatory. The result is a network that enables us to attract additional opportunities for high quality growth and generate improved operating margins.

We are capturing opportunities through digital technology and automation that are changing the way people and companies connect and communicate. Additionally, our advanced methods of optimizing the flows of freight and packages with available capacity results in improved transit times for our customers and better asset utilization and network efficiency. To build on those improvements and fulfill the growing demand for our services, we are significantly expanding capacity through comprehensive investments across our operations.

These improvements have succeeded in large part due to the innovative ideas and commitment to service our people bring to UPS everyday. We will continue to shape our culture so we can seize on the new market opportunities of the 21st century.

I want to encourage all of our shareowners to vote. This is your opportunity to share your views with the Company. We look for meaningful ways to engage with our investors as we continually seek to grow our business, improve governance and increase shareowner value. We are grateful to those shareowners who have previously shared their views. As we approach the Annual Meeting, I encourage you to contact us with any questions or feedback at 404-828-6059.

On behalf of the entire Board of Directors, thank you for your continued support of UPS.

David P. Abney
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
