In 2018, Valero once again delivered solid
financial results while maintaining its
unrelenting focus on operations excellence
— enabling safe, reliable and environmentally
responsible operations.
For the year, adjusted net income attributable
to stockholders was $7.37 per share, compared
with $4.96 per share in 2017. We matched our
2017 record for process safety performance, and
we continued to outperform the industry on our
personnel injury rates.
We also delivered on our commitment to
invest in growth projects and acquisitions that
increase Valero’s earnings capability, while
maintaining solid returns to our stockholders.
The logistics investments we made over the last
several years are contributing significantly to
earnings.
In November 2018, the boards of directors
of Valero and joint-venture partner Darling
Ingredients Inc. approved another expansion of
our Diamond Green Diesel plant.
In 2018, we paid to stockholders 54 percent
of our annual adjusted net cash provided by
operating activities, exceeding our target annual
payout range of 40 percent to 50 percent.
Our solid financial position and a favorable
outlook for our business enabled us to further
demonstrate our commitment to our investors,
as our board in January 2019 approved a
12.5 percent increase in the regular quarterly
dividend to $0.90 per share, or $3.60 annually.
Also in January, we closed the acquisition of
Valero Energy Partners. This transaction was
immediately accretive and has simplified our
structure.
Our disciplined capital allocation framework
continues to drive our ability to balance growth
and cash returns for our stockholders. We
prioritize maintaining our investment-grade
credit ratings and non-discretionary spending
to sustain our business and grow our dividend.
Growth through projects or acquisitions and
incremental cash returns compete for remaining
discretionary cash flow. We continue to receive
positive feedback from our stockholders on
our framework and adherence to it and we are
committed to it going forward.
With a healthy economy, a year-over-year
increase in vehicle miles traveled and affordable
fuel prices, we are encouraged for 2019. We
expect good demand for our products in
domestic and export markets this year.
Adding to our optimism are expected
incremental diesel demand and discounts for
sour crude-oil feedstock associated with the
impending global marine bunker fuel sulfur
reduction standards.
We believe that our outstanding team’s ability
to optimize our system’s flexibility to process a
wide range of feedstocks, and reliably supply
quality fuels, positions Valero well for whatever
opportunity the market presents to us.
Thank you for your continued support and trust