Dear Fellow Stockholders:
I am pleased to present the Walgreens Boots Alliance Proxy Statement
with details of our steadfast and ongoing commitment to sound corporate
governance. My fellow directors and I are dedicated to strong,
independent Board leadership and to evolving our governance practices
with the benefit of open dialogue with stockholders. This engagement,
and an understanding of stockholder priorities, is critical to our success.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the stockholders who met
with us over the past year and provided invaluable input to our corporate
governance practices. We are grateful for the opportunity to continue
these important conversations. William C. Foote
As in prior years, we continue to conduct a robust, multi-step Board evaluation process, which we believe
is an essential component of Board effectiveness. We also regularly discuss director succession and
board refreshment, both in executive sessions and as a full Board.
Our Company’s performance was strong in fiscal 2018 with growth in many financial and operating
metrics, including earnings, operating income, cash flow, U.S. prescriptions filled and U.S. retail
prescription market share. Our businesses delivered continued progress while operating in the highly
competitive healthcare and retail industries, which have experienced significant consolidation.
We maintained our disciplined approach to capital allocation during 2018; investing opportunistically to
expand our offering and our footprint, drive growth and develop our human capital. We continued to
demonstrate our commitment to return excess cash to our stockholders over the long term, through the
43rd consecutive annual increase in our dividend (including by our predecessor company, Walgreen Co.),
as well as the authorization in June 2018 of a $10 billion share repurchase program.
We are pleased to have completed the acquisition of all 1,932 Rite Aid stores that we agreed to purchase
from Rite Aid Corporation under an amended and restated asset purchase agreement. The transaction,
including the transition of three distribution centers and related inventory that began during fiscal 2019,
furthers our Company’s commitment to accessible, affordable, quality healthcare in the U.S. and to
advance consumer access to pharmacy-led health and wellbeing.
Our Company touches millions of lives around the world every day, through the medicines we dispense
and distribute, our convenient retail stores and our health and beauty products. Thus, we believe we are
uniquely situated to help people, communities and the planet. The Board’s Nominating and Governance
Committee, which I chair and which is made up entirely of independent directors, continued to review and
monitor our Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies and activities.
The Board, through the Committee, shares in our Company’s commitment to responsible leadership,
sustainable business practices and transparency. Our Company has impacted millions of lives through our
healthcare-centered CSR initiatives, helping to provide lifesaving immunizations, life-changing vitamins,
health screening and HIV testing; educating our pharmacists to assist patients with the emotional as well
as the physical aspects of cancer; supporting cancer research; providing access to healthcare services
and continuity of care following natural disasters; and raising awareness around dementia and mental
health. Consistent with input received from our stockholders, we took action to support our Company’s
efforts to help combat the U.S. opioid abuse crisis through the expansion of a safe medication takeback
program and other initiatives.
Our 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Friday, January 25, 2019 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern
Standard Time at the Lotte New York Palace, 455 Madison Avenue at 50th Street, New York, New York
10022. We look forward to seeing you there. Even if you cannot attend in person, your vote is very
important. Please vote at your earliest convenience.
On behalf of my fellow independent directors and the entire Board, thank you for your investment in
Walgreens Boots Alliance and the trust and confidence it implies.
Sincerely,
William C. Foote
Lead Independent Director