Dear Fellow Shareholders

We are steadfast in
our commitment to
building and protecting
the long-term value
of the company.
Looking back on my first year as chair of the
Wells Fargo Board of Directors, I am encouraged
by the progress the company and our board
have made as we build a better Wells Fargo for
the future.
Before I talk about the board, I’d like to recognize
the tireless efforts of our management team.
Tim Sloan became CEO just over two years ago,
and since then, with the full support of the board,
he has been driving transformational change
at the company.
As CEO, Tim’s first priority was to initiate an
extensive review to identify, understand, and
resolve the problems of the past; to provide
appropriate remediation to customers who
were harmed; and to be transparent about our
progress. We discovered a variety of issues, and
even though the specific causes may have been
different, some common themes emerged, such
as the company’s history of running businesses
individually and the decentralized nature of
certain control functions. I believe this review
was necessary to help us serve our customers
better. In the past two years, we have centralized
many aspects of our organizational structure,
strengthened risk management, and improved
governance practices and oversight. Going
forward, we believe maintaining a holistic view
of the company and focusing on operational
excellence will result in continued positive change.
Organizationally, Tim has pulled together a
strong management team that blends Wells Fargo
veterans with experienced talent from elsewhere.
Three of his direct reports are from outside
the company, and two more — the company’s
new head of Technology and chief auditor — will
join Wells Fargo in April. Most of his other direct
reports are in new or expanded roles. Together,
the leadership team is executing plans to
streamline the company’s operating structure,
better define roles and responsibilities, fill key
ELIZABETH A. DUKE | Chair, Board of Directors, Wells Fargo & Company
3 

























4
positions, enhance the way we serve customers, regulatory expectations remains a top priority,
strengthen risk and compliance measures, and as is continuing to serve our customers and help
instill our Vision, Values & Goals uniformly them succeed financially.
into the culture of Wells Fargo. In addition, the
management team has redesigned the strategy, OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS
leadership, and incentive structure of the retail The board operates very differently today than
bank and the Wells Fargo Auto business to align it did a year ago. Following our independent
with a more forward-looking consumer approach. board investigation into retail sales practices
One important early indicator of the success and our 2017 board self-evaluation, we
of these efforts is that “Customer Loyalty” and identified several areas in which we could
“Overall Satisfaction with Most Recent Visit” enhance board oversight. As a result, we added
Community Bank branch survey scores reached more directors with expertise in financial
24-month highs in December 2018. At the same services; adjusted committee structures,
time, voluntary team member attrition in 2018 charters, and membership; enhanced agenda
improved to its lowest level in six years. planning; and worked with management to
better focus materials provided to the board.
Early in 2018, we agreed to a consent order with Mary Jo White, a senior partner at the law firm
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and former chair
System and consent orders with the Office of the of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Comptroller of the Currency and the Consumer was engaged by the board to facilitate its 2017
Financial Protection Bureau. To make sure we are self-evaluation and work with the board on
meeting our commitments under the consent its 2018 self-evaluation to help assess our
orders, the board and senior management are progress. Regular self-assessment provides us
engaged in regular dialogue with our regulators. a mechanism for continuous improvement.
Clear communication is necessary so that the
comprehensive changes we are making across With 13 directors, our board is smaller than in
the company will sufficiently strengthen our the recent past. More than half of the current
governance and oversight, as well as operational directors joined the board in 2017 or later.
and compliance risk management. Although we These new directors came ready to work and
are devoting a significant amount of resources began to contribute immediately. The new
to these efforts, we also have been delivering on directors have brought important experience in
our ongoing cost-reduction initiatives. Expense several areas, including financial services, other
savings from simplifying and centralizing highly regulated industries, and consumer brand
operations help fund our investments in areas management. With board turnover, we have
such as risk management and technology. also refreshed our board committee leadership.
Since September 2017, six of seven standing
We continue to have constructive dialogue board committees have new committee chairs.
with the Federal Reserve on an ongoing basis Today, the average tenure of our independent
to clarify expectations, receive feedback, and directors is less than four years. Even as the
assess progress under the consent order, and board and its committees have experienced much
we are now planning to operate under the change, we remain focused on responding to
asset cap through the end of 2019. Making stakeholders, enhancing oversight, a















In January 2019, Wayne Hewett joined our
board. Throughout his career as a CEO and
senior executive, Wayne has had a record of
success managing strategic priorities in complex
business environments. His background as an
industrial engineer and experience with datadriven process improvement methodologies
will be especially valuable as we focus on
operational excellence.
Karen Peetz will retire from the board at our
Annual Meeting of Shareholders in April
2019. Karen has been effective at framing risk
management imperatives and insisting on
individual accountability, especially in her role
as chair of the Risk Committee. Since Karen
joined the Risk Committee, we have brought
on to our board and Risk Committee additional
expertise in risk management of financial
institutions. By announcing her retirement
decision early, Karen has again demonstrated
her commitment to responsible governance
by ensuring a smooth transition of Risk
Committee chair to Maria Morris, who will
continue the work Karen started.
OVERSIGHT
Our board oversight in 2018 focused heavily
on identifying, understanding, and resolving
issues within the company, including
concerns identified by our regulators.
We are also looking to the future. In his letter
to shareholders, Tim details management
strategies to achieve our six company goals
of becoming the financial services leader in
customer service and advice, team member
engagement, innovation, risk management,
corporate citizenship, and shareholder value.
Going forward, board oversight of those
goals will emphasize the following:
Meeting regulatory expectations.
We recognize the importance of fully
satisfying regulatory expectations. We
are specifically focused on satisfying the
requirements of the company’s outstanding
consent orders. But more broadly, we are
enhancing our risk and reporting systems
to meet the heightened regulatory
expectations for systemically important
financial institutions and our own goal of
industry leadership in risk management.
We are engaging in frequent and open
communication with our regulators about
our progress.
Enhancing risk management.
Wells Fargo has been and remains an
industry leader in credit, market, and
liquidity risk management. Over the years,
the company has demonstrated an ability
to manage through difficult economic
conditions, including the 2008 financial
crisis, but management of compliance and
operational risks needed improvement.
We have new leadership in the chief risk
officer, chief compliance officer, head of
Regulatory Relations, and chief operational
risk officer roles. They have developed and
are busy implementing plans to continue
building our operational and compliance
risk management systems to a level that
matches our business, structure, and
strategies. These plans include enhancing
management-level governance committee
structures, oversight, monitoring and
controls, and escalation processes and
procedures. Our objective is to build an
industry-leading risk management program.
Operational excellence. Many of our past
operational risk problems stemmed from
weaknesses in underlying operations.
In 2018, management launched a project
to inventory and map all our business
processes. While identifying risk areas
5 
















6
will improve our control testing and
monitoring functions, reducing the number
and complexity of our business processes
also offers the potential for improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of core
operations. We expect this work to
improve the customer and team member
experience, reduce operating costs, and
enhance risk management.
Oversight of culture and human capital
management. We continue to assess
and shape the company’s culture, with
an emphasis on such areas as ethics,
training and development, and diversity
and inclusion. One of the guiding values
of Wells Fargo is “people as a competitive
advantage.” We expect to devote a
substantial amount of board attention to
talent management strategies, including
plans to attract, retain, reward, develop,
and care for the very best people available.
We recognize the importance of rewarding
outstanding performance and holding
team members accountable.
Technology. New generations of customers
and team members expect technology to
work seamlessly and intuitively. Thoughtful
use of emerging technologies can enable
quantum leaps in innovation and efficiency.
At the same time, cyber risk is at an all-time
high. We want to make sure all our systems
operate on up-to-date platforms, are able to
process and protect massive amounts of data,
and contribute to our vision of operational
excellence and leadership in innovation.
We have already made progress in each
of these areas, and we will continue to focus
on them in 2019.
STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION
For the past several years, our independent
directors have participated in a shareholder
engagement program to help us better
understand our shareholders’ views on key
corporate governance and other topics.
The candid feedback of our shareholders
helps us define priorities, assess progress,
and enhance our corporate governance
practices. In 2018, I met with shareholders
representing more than 35 percent of our
company’s common stock to discuss our
governance approach.
Our board is also focused on corporate
citizenship, which is overseen by the board’s
Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The committee reviews environmental and
social governance practices and policies.
Following our 2018 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, Corporate Responsibility
Committee members met with members
of our external Stakeholder Advisory Council
to seek feedback and insights on current
and emerging issues important to them.
Tim and I continued to meet with the council
during the year to discuss such varied topics
as mortgage lending, services for unbanked or
underbanked consumers, our efforts to help
customers avoid and reduce overdraft fees,
environmental commitments, human rights,
and reputational risk issues.
One of our most significant responses to
shareholder feedback was the publication of
a Business Standards Report on our website
in early 2019. The report was the culmination
of engagement with a group of stakeholders
led by the Interfaith Center on Corporate
Responsibility, which requested the report.
The report discusses our business practices and
the many fundamental changes we have made — 
and continue to make — as we transform our
company. The report also details what we have
learned and what we have changed as we work
to improve the company and rebuild trust.
I encourage you to read it.
“ The entire board remains
excited and optimistic about
Wells Fargo.”
LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE
Over the past few years, management and the
board have devoted a substantial amount of time
and attention to the problems we have found
in our company. Finding, fixing, and atoning for
those problems is necessary to build our future
on a strong foundation and is required to meet the
expectations of our regulators and regain the
trust of our customers, team members, and the
public. Through it all, we have also delivered solid
financial performance. The company earned
$22.4 billion in 2018, or $4.28 per diluted
common share, the highest earnings per share
in the company’s history. Our ability to sustain
solid financial performance in the face of our
recent challenges is a testament to the fi nancial
durability provided by our core franchise and
diversified business model.
Our capital levels are well in excess of regulatory
minimums. As part of the company’s goal of
delivering long-term shareholder value, we’re
committed to returning capital to shareholders
when appropriate. During 2018 we returned a
record $25.8 billion in capital to shareholders
through common stock dividends and net share
repurchases, representing a 78 percent increase
from 2017. In January 2019, we increased the
quarterly common stock dividend from 43 cents
to 45 cents per share.
We do not take our strengths for granted.
We intend to continue to strengthen risk
management, streamline and simplify
operations, and innovate responsibly so we
can build on our strengths. The goal of all
these efforts is to become even more customerfocused, innovative, and better positioned for
the future — creating long-term value for
our shareholders.
IN APPRECIATION
On behalf of the directors of your company,
thank you for choosing to invest in Wells Fargo
and for your continued faith in the future of our
company. Even though much work remains, we
believe we are on the right path and are making
real progress. We are confident we have a CEO
and management team with the vision and
strategy to achieve our goals — and to fix the
problems of the past while building a strong
foundation for the future. The changes the
company is making are showing positive signs,
and we are confident in our success.
I encourage you to carefully review this
report, our 2019 proxy statement, and the
other materials the company makes available
to shareholders to better understand the
opportunities and challenges ahead and
Wells Fargo’s work to execute its strategy.
We are steadfast in our commitment to
building and protecting the long-term value
of the company.
The entire board remains excited and
optimistic about Wells Fargo.
ELIZABETH A. DUKE
Chair, Board of Directors

Wells Fargo & Company

February 15, 2019 