To Our Shareholders,
2018 can be summed up by two primary drivers: a sharpened focus on core, sustainable, organic growth and driving a
continuous cost management culture. Over the years we have been a highly entrepreneurial and innovative company
which benefited from asymmetries in global energy markets. Today, as a result of evolving market dynamics in energy,
information, and global trade, success requires greater operational excellence with the imperative to efficiently scale
organically. Our team has been laser focused on shifting more of our capital and talent towards businesses that produce
more predictable and sustainable revenue streams. We executed well on this as we hit a few record highs this year, most
notably delivering more than $1 billion of gross profit for the first time and improving our operating expense ratio. We
remain committed to these areas of focus and to driving further gains in 2019.
People are at the core of everything we do, and our leadership and management have never been stronger. The adage of
people, process, and technology still stands, and in that order; however, technology and process are not just an
afterthought. They are embedded, infused and deeply entrenched in everything we do for our own operations, as well as
those of the customers we serve. In 2018, we further expanded our software, digital and service offering across many
areas of the business. And as we sharpen our focus and fortify our base to amplify growth, we will selectively pursue
additions to the core while leveraging technology and automation to facilitate integration and drive further organic growth.
Today, we are grounded on a solid foundation to generate strong financial results while providing the best solutions for
our clients. We are proud to be a trusted global energy and logistics network enabling global commerce.
Our aviation segment is the best example of our ability to accelerate aggressive organic growth by positioning ourselves
with a comprehensive and durable value proposition. Leveraging our investment in international distribution assets, we
continue to expand our global network to provide customers with the most cost-effective and reliable supply solutions, as
well as complementary service offerings beyond fuel. Our marine segment is unrivaled in its ability to assist customers in
managing the supply challenges of fuel availability, quality and compatibility; which are expected to increase as we
approach the implementation of the new IMO low sulfur regulations that will go into effect on January 1, 2020. We have
been actively working with our customers on preparing their bunkering programs with an appropriate risk management
strategy and making provisions within our global network to ensure reliability of quality supply.
On a smaller scale presently is our land segment, which has the potential to generate sizable revenue streams in the
future. Our focus on commercial and industrial users of energy in this space captures the essence of World Fuel. It
enables a comprehensive solution for our customers who increasingly want a single source provider for all their energy
needs from liquid fuels, renewables, gas and power, to expertise on how to optimize their own operations and sustainability objectives.
We believe we have a compelling vision and a passionate organization with a burning desire to succeed in building an
enterprise shaped by a sustainable model that earns value share.
I am continually amazed and grateful for the people I call my colleagues and teammates. We embrace our entrepreneurial
heritage and I realized this year it was time to dissolve our 553-word dress code policy to 2-words: Dress appropriately. I
could think of no better way to honor all the generations and nationalities and roles that represent the commercial agility,
ingenuity and deep market knowledge that our customers have come to rely on and for what World Fuel Services is
known. At the core of our creativity and innovation is having fun and celebrating the key role we play in connecting and
facilitating global commerce. We are thankful for this exciting and important role.

I continue to be enthusiastic about our business and deeply believe in our future.I’m excited to come to work each day
and I want to thank our shareholders who understand and support our mission. We aim to make your journey with us
steady and prosperous.
Sincerely,
705894.indd 4 3/27/17 11:06 AM
Annual Shareholder
Letter
A message from
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Michael J. Kasbar
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer